When does per-medium redundancy in archiving become over the top?
=====================
Tools exist for adding redundancy in archiving, for example
[DVDisaster](http://dvdisaster.net/en/index.html), which fills your
DVD's leftover space with recovery information, allowing more physical
degradation than usual of the disk.

Is this strategy worth the bother when archiving? One obvious
alternative is to refresh your backup media more often, and use
redundancy of actual physical copies, rather than redundancy per-disk.

Another downside is the possibility that DVDisaster software becomes
unmaintained and unusable.

Supposing this per-medium redundancy strategy isn't a waste of time,
what alternatives exist to DVDisaster?

occulus

### Comments ###


Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
The best alternative I'm aware of are the parity archive
[parchive](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parchive) formats, which let
you do the same thing but in a media independent fashion and using open
source tools.

However, your time might be better spent simply burning a second DVD or
putting a copy on another medium. Data disks like CDROMs and DVDs
already use low-level error detection and correction codes, making bit
loss relatively unlikely (I suspect) compared to whole disk failure
(cracks, breaks, scratches, ink failure, etc.)

### Comments ###

Answer by wizzard0
----------------
I second the usage of Parchive (or other tools with similar
functionality), but want to emphasize that in the end you should get a
system where you have a set of disks (like a RAID) where you can
tolerate a loss of any one disk and rebuild it from the remaining ones.

This is better than having ability to recover a scratch from any disk,
but failing to tolerate the complete disk loss, because they will fail
over time one way or another, and you need a solid replacement strategy
anyway.

### Comments ###

