Extracting data from and preserving 3.5in floppy disks used in a Macintosh SE (1988)
=====================
My parents used a Macintosh SE which they bought back in 1988 for their
publishing and tutoring business. This was running System 6 and they
also used to do their accounts on this machine. However since this
machine cost an arm and a leg at the time and didn't feel the need to
buy a new computer anyway, they kept on using it almost on a daily basis
until 2003 when they bought a Sony VAIO. The mac however, I kept
checking up on it and playing around with it until it finally packed in
back around 2006.

As a result they gathered a large number of floppy disks, most of them
1.4 MB floppies, but most interestingly are a few System 6 disks and
other software. The last time I inserted them into the machine, they
still worked ok. I'm wondering what the best use of these would be. Is
it worth preserving them and if so how? And how would I go about backing
up the data on these disks?

Adam-E

### Comments ###
* Dmitry Brant: Sort of related:
http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/6/how-can-i-recover-old-digital-formats-whose-readers-are-no-longer-extant


Answer by Nicholas Webb
----------------
For disks created by pre-OS X versions of Mac OS, the best solution I've
found is to (1) create disk images and (2) access their contents with an
emulator.

Your first priority should be to get the data off of the floppies, since
they're at risk of degradation. Modern OSes can't read the System 6
filesystem even if they have a 3.5" floppy drive, so what you need is a
bit-by-bit disk image of any floppies you want to save.

You might be able to create these with the SE itself, if it still works
and if it has an internal hard drive and some form of network access,
although I can't recommend any particular utilities. Alternatively, you
can use a USB floppy drive to create images on a modern system using a
utility like [dd](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dd_%28Unix%29) or [FTK
imager](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FTK). A poster on the thread linked
above recommended the [Nippon Labs
USB-FLPY-DLOCK](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16821105004),
although I can't vouch for it myself.

One issue to be aware of is that not all 3.5" inch floppies are 1.44 MB.
In the early years of 3.5" floppies there were [a number of different
physical
formats](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3.5%22_Floppy_Disk#3+1.E2.81.842-inch_floppy_disk_.28.22Microfloppy.22.29)
(400kb, 800kb, single- and double-density, etc.), and not all drives
were compatible with all types. A lot of the "toaster"-style Macs could
only read certain varieties -- I remember this giving me headaches even
at the time. If you think you might have disks in these formats, you
should make sure that they are supported by whichever drive you end up
using.

Once you've created the disk images, you can open and mount them in an
[emulator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_computer_system_emulators#Apple_Macintosh_with_680x0_CPU).
I can't recommend a particular emulator for an SE, but I use
[SheepShaver](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SheepShaver) to access disks
created by a circa-1997 PowerTower (one of the short-lived Macintosh
clones running System 7.)

Setup will depend on the particular emulator you're using, but you
should be aware that pre-X versions of Mac OS, including [System
6](http://download.info.apple.com/Apple_Support_Area/Apple_Software_Updates/English-North_American/Macintosh/System/Older_System/System_6.0.x/),
are available for free from Apple's website. If you still have the
installation disks for the software your parents used, you can take
images of those and use them to install the necessary applications in
the emulation environment without having to delve into the legal gray
area of abandonware.

Migrating your data to a contemporary format will depend on the
particular applications and might be difficult. At the cost of losing
some of the formatting, you might be able to export the data into an
open format (ASCII text for word processing documents, CSV for
spreadsheets) that you could then open on your current system. Ideally
the application itself will be able to do this, but you might have to
dig around to find a file conversion utility that runs on System 6.

Once you've done all this, you can manage the disk images like you would
any other files in your personal organization/backup system. If you plan
to preserve this collection long-term (or to eventually store it in a
formal repository), you should record any provenance/identifying
information so that you know the contents and extent of what you have.

This doesn't need to be complicated -- human-readable filenames and a
spreadsheet are fine -- but you should be able to identify which images
came from which (physical) disks and what each image contains, even if
you end up discarding the physical copies. (I.e., image
"Financial\_2.img" came from an 800kb Maxell floppy with a handwritten
label "Financial Records Disk 2 of 6" and contains financial data for
the year 1988 in ClarisWorks Spreadsheet format.)

In addition, you might want to keep a record of how to configure and set
up the emulator, what the contemporary OS and hardware requirements are
to run the emulator, what software (running on the emulator) is
necessary to access the files, et cetera. That way, if you pass the
collection on to someone else, or if you don't use it for several years
and forget exactly what you did, you'll have the Representation
Information (in OAIS terms) necessary to keep your data accessible.

As I mentioned, I used this process to back up and preserve the contents
of a System 7 desktop. Accessing the files is as easy as booting
SheepShaver and mounting the disk image, although I haven't tackled the
process of exporting them to preservation formats yet.

### Comments ###
* Adam-E: Wow that's a really concise answer, and the sort of information I was
looking for, thanks.

Answer by anarchivist
----------------
I would also add to Nicholas' detailed answer that the type of disks you
have can largely determine your imaging setup. While Mac high-density
(1.4MB) disks will be easily readable and at least imageable if you have
a USB floppy drive and software like dd or FTK Imager, you will not be
able to image 400K (single-sided double density) or 800K (double-sided
double density) disks using this setup. The reason behind this is the
encoding scheme used on the disk.

High-density floppies use
[MFM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modified_Frequency_Modulation)
encoding, which is supported by essentially all contemporary floppy
controller boards (including those found in USB floppies, and those
found on some recent motherboards). Double density Mac floppies,
however, use [GCR](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_Code_Recording)
encoding, which is **unsupported by most recent controllers.**

To image GCR-encoded floppies using a more recent computer, you will
need a board such as a [KryoFlux](http://www.kryoflux.com/) or a
[Catweasel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Individual_Computers_Catweasel).
I suggest looking at [this
post](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/1261/is-there-a-hardware-controller-option-for-acquiring-data-images-off-floppy-disks/1262#1262)
on libraries.stackexchange for potential guidance on which equipment to
acquire (in the interest of disclosure, I have an answer on that post).

The other complicating factor in this is the file system used on the
disks. If you're imaging 400K SSDD Mac disks, these disks will probably
contain an [MFS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macintosh_File_System)
file system, which very few contemporary tools will read.
[HFS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hierarchical_File_System) and
HFS+/HFS Extended file systems are somewhat easier to read using recent
tools - FTK Imager, for instance, will support reading and extracting
those images.

### Comments ###
* Adam-E: Thanks for the additional info, that's real handy. :) I've saved this
page [before it
goes](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/50/digital-preservation-se-will-close-on-march-18).

