When should preserved data be allowed to die?
=====================
After a certain period of time, all data loses value. For example, the
IRS only requires a few years of tax information be retained, beyond
which they cannot audit by law.

At what point should "preservation" be changed into "conservation" - ie,
when should data no longer be considered vital and allowed to die (or be
actively deleted)?

* * * * *

^~related\\\\ to,\\\\ but\\\\ different\\\\ from,\\\\ [How\\\\ to\\\\ handle\\\\ sensibly\\\\ lossful\\\\ digital\\\\ long\\\\ term\\\\ preservation?](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/39/30)~^

warren

### Comments ###
* John Lovejoy: The issue of 'value' of the information should always be considered.
There is no use preserving stuff that has no value. Records Managers and
Archivists should be familiar wit the concept of "appraisal"
* walker: I feel this is more discussion topic than question and answer. Without a
specific context - which records to keep for how long and for whom - I
don't think answering this question (which is a general appraisal
question as @john-lovejoy states) will be helpful for the vast majority
of visitors. Even if it were, I'm not sure appraisal questions are in
scope here.


Answer by wizzard0
----------------
Since the storage capacities and data volumes have been growing
exponentially, you can easily see for yourself that the cost of storing
data indefinitely is limited.

I.e. you need \$1000 for storing 1 year, \$1500 for storing 2 years,
\$1750 for 3 years and so on - and \$2000 for storing data indefinitely.

So, my personal opinion observerd on a number of projects is that there
is no need to delete (or even support deletion in the system design)
because the cost decreases together or faster than the value does.

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: It is hardly certain that this trend will continue indefinitely, see
[this
analysis](http://blog.dshr.org/2012/10/storage-will-be-lot-less-free-than-it.html)
for example.
* wizzard0: Insightful research, thanks!

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
The notion of [Archival
appraisal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archival_appraisal) is relevant
here. Organizations need to make decisions about the long term value of
materials. Some materials have permanent value, some are set to specific
retention schedules. In any case, it is a matter of an organization
identifying why something is important and what uses it can serve in the
future and then deciding how to manage content toward those ends.

As a side note, all data does **not** lose its value. There are a lot of
things that weren't thought of as valuable at all but were kept around
as a result of benign neglect (for example [Martha Ballard's
Diary](http://dohistory.org/diary/about.html)). There are also things
like antiquarian books, or early drafts of scientific papers, that have
enormous historical value. The point here is that value is always
dependent on some intended use. So the question is, how is the data
useful to you and your organization and who else might it be useful to
in the future.

### Comments ###

Answer by gmcgath
----------------
There's a distinction between preservation and retention, which Trevor
alludes to but should be made more explicit. Tax records are an example
of retention; they're kept for a finite time for a specific need, and
after that they have no value or may even be problematic to keep because
of privacy issues. Records of this type normally aren't made public.
Things like customer records and maintenance logs fall into the category
of retention. Information which is appropriate for public disclosure
falls into the "preservation" category, and in general there's no reason
to delete it unless you're facing a resource crunch.

### Comments ###

