Should Digital Preservationists be Worried about cryptographic hash collisions?
=====================
Given the probabilities of hash value collisions are MD5 hashes
sufficient for ensuring file fixity? Or should SHA1 or SHA2 be used? Or,
should folks be catching all three. I would be interested in both issues
to consider for tamper resistance and for simply knowing if what I have
is what I think I have.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by wizzard0
----------------
-   If you only care about accidental data corruption: Any of those will
    do.

-   If there is a possibility of targeted attack: MD5 is broken, SHA1
    weakened, SHA2 is doing very well. Note that SHA1 and SHA2 are
    completely different algorithms.

-   Also, if you're going to store LOTS of data (e.g. 2\^70 files) then
    you need a hash algorithm which has at least 2X+20 bits due to
    birthday paradox.\
     The X here is log2(number\_of\_files), so, for example, if the repo
    has 1 000 000 000 files (about 2\^30), 2\*30+20=80 bits of (good)
    hash is necessary to provide sufficient collision protection

Overall, I would use 256-bit SHA2 for next 100+ years.

For tamper resistance, using any two hash algorithms (even if one is
broken) increases hack difficulty immensely. So calculating MD5 in
addition to sha256 (because it is already widely used) should be more
than enough.

### Comments ###
* wizzard0: The X is log2(number\_of\_files), so, for example, if the repo has 1 000
000 000 files (about 2\^30), 2\*30+20=80 bits of (good) hash is
necessary to provide sufficient collision protection.
* wizzard0: Updated the answer with the comment.

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
MD5 is [broken](http://www.mathstat.dal.ca/~selinger/md5collision/) and
SHA-1 will be crackable within [five
years](http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2012/10/when_will_we_se.html)
(I especially like the speculation of using criminal organizations
harnessing a botnet to crack SHA-1 cheaply.) Because archives help
establish the historical records and have often be attacked/manipulated
to alter that record, I don't doubt that digital archives will be the
target of attacks to remove or alter that record as well.

Checksums will continue to be cracked over time, so digital preservation
systems will need a graceful method to calculate new checksums for
stored objects and store them in their database alongside past
checksums. Retaining hashes from a variety of algorithms will also
complicate the task of crafting a collision file.

### Comments ###

