---
title: "Is it possible to check out someone's PhD student thesis from another university through interlibrary loan?"
layout: default
---
Is it possible to check out someone's PhD student thesis from another university through interlibrary loan?
=====================
And are there any restrictions on this sort of behavior? Are some
universities somewhat more reluctant to let students from other
universities loan the PhD theses of their students?

InquilineKea

### Comments ###


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
I can only speak to microform copies of theses (I work in InterLibrary
Loan at a Canadian university, and that is all I have ever had to deal
with so far). In our case, we won't copy the entire thing for you,
because that breaks copyright, but we will send you the microform for
you to use, under normal borrowing rules.

### Comments ###

Answer by teagueamania
----------------
We are doing our utmost to make this question moot by making our
student's theses available online:
[http://thesis.library.caltech.edu/](http://thesis.library.caltech.edu/)
. Access is naturally at the discretion of the copyright holder (i.e.
the student).

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Quite often, yes; contact the library at the institution from which the
author obtained his/her Ph.D.

Before doing so, however, you may wish to find out whether the author's
institution has an institutional repository (IR), an online archive of
materials produced at the institution. Quite a few institutions have
digitized thesis backfiles (though as Teague Allen says, whether a given
thesis is available sometimes depends on authors having granted
permission) as well as deposit of current theses.

Less likely but still possible if the author still works in academia:
see if the author's current employer has an IR. It's rare but not
unheard-of for authors to deposit their theses in a later employer's IR.

### Comments ###

Answer by jeff
----------------
It's not uncommon for there to be restrictions placed on the
inter-library loan of theses. These restrictions vary, and are typically
established by the lending library.

-   Some university libraries will only loan a thesis if they have
    multiple physical copies, so as to reduce the risk of "the only
    copy" going unreturned.

-   The lending library may specify that your library must not permit
    you to leave the premises with the thesis.

In addition to the above, it's also possible that the PhD student has
specified restrictions be placed on distribution when depositing their
thesis. A thesis may be embargoed for a specific period of time at the
student's option.

For example, graduate students at the University of Illinois can select
from a number of different "release options" when depositing the
electronic copy of their thesis:

> -   Open Access
> -   U of I Only
> -   Closed Access

(see [Thesis release options/Patent
FAQs](http://www.grad.illinois.edu/thesis-faqs#Thesis_release_options)
for more details on each)

Some libraries partner with commercial services to archive their
students theses. These companies can then offer access to the full
thesis, sometimes for an additional fee or included in your library's
subscription to a specific database offering.

Perhaps the most well-known company in this space us UMI / Proquest. See
their [Finding the dissertation or thesis you
need](http://www.proquest.com/en-US/products/dissertations/finding.shtml)
page for a link to a number of their products.

University libraries are making great strides in placing theses online
in institutional repositories. This eliminates a lot of the concerns
regarding preservation of the "only" physical copy, and can even
eliminate the need for an ILL request. Access permissions (you guessed
it) can vary.

In summary: since restrictions vary, either contact your local library's
ILL librarian, or research the matter on the lending library's web site
(try the pages intended for other libraries or those intended for
students depositing their thesis).

You may also have good luck contacting the student directly. I've seen
recent PhD students promote the public electronic copy of their thesis
quite enthusiastically!

### Comments ###

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
This is definitely possible; in fact, this was one of the main data
gathering mechanisms used in the [MPACT
project](http://www.ibiblio.org/mpact/), which was an attempt to build
an "academic genealogy" for LIS.

For example, [Cassidy Sugimoto's
page.](http://www.ibiblio.org/mpact/mpact.php?op=show_tree&id=1558)

### Comments ###

