---
title: "How does the number of digital publications grow compared to printed publications?"
layout: default
---
How does the number of digital publications grow compared to printed publications?
=====================
Since Derek de Solla Price's *Little Science - Big Science* (1963) it is
known that the number of scientific publications grows exponentially.
It's also known that more and more publications are published
electronically. I am looking for studies that compare the actual growth
of both. How does the fraction of digital publications compared to
printed publications rise?

Sure an answer depends on where one draws the line between a publication
and just any digital content. Any actual studies that try to measure the
growth based on some definition? By the way I am not interested in the
amout of information, but in the number of publications because
libraries primarily collect publications.

Jakob

### Comments ###
* jonsca: It may be better to frame it in terms of "How \*has\* the number grown"
in the title, but otherwise, interesting question!
* Jakob: It's still growing and I'm also interested in predictions. Feel free,
however, to edit my English ;-)
* jonsca: Your English is fine. :) I just wanted to pull the question out of the
hypothetical a bit, but I understand what you are going for a little
better now.
* Eleonora: I am posting this as a comment because it isn't really an answer, move
it in case. I have asked this question to ABC UK, the industry body for
media measurement (http://www.abc.org.uk/About-us/What-we-do/), and in
short they have answered that they collect data but do not analyse them
or do research on them, and they are not aware of any resource available
on the subject. I can post the full exchange if needed - I know it does
not help but it shows that it is a "difficult" topic.


Answer by MGallinger
----------------
That's a really good question. Part of the answer depends on how you're
defining "publish." Typically printed materials go through a rigorous
publication process. Our definitions for what is digitally published are
much broader and more fluid. Do you mean something that is reviewed,
vetted and signed off on by a trusted publishing organization? or do you
mean published to the web? or something else?

In terms of the digital universe, [this
report](http://www.emc.com/collateral/analyst-reports/idc-extracting-value-from-chaos-ar.pdf)
is a great place to start.

Highlights:

-   In 2011, the amount of information created and replicated will
    surpass 1.8 zettabytes (1.8 trillion gigabytes) - growing by a
    factor of 9 in just five years.

-   75% of the information in the digital universe is generated by
    individuals,



### Comments ###
* Jakob: The study mainly talks about "information" measured in bytes. I am
interested in number of publications. Any number is useless without a
definiton of "publish", so I am also interested in definitions. For
instance: number of ebooks with ISBN, number of Tweets on Twitter,
number of blog postings, number of articles archived in repositories
etc.

