---
title: "Reserve wrapper alternatives"
layout: default
---
Reserve wrapper alternatives
=====================
When a reserved item is scanned in at our library, a reserve wrapper
will print. It has the member's name on the spine and the pull date for
its removal from the shelf, and member contact information on the front.
It is wrapped around the book with a rubber band and placed on a shelf
to which members of the public have access. The purpose of the wrapper
is not only to identify the borrower but also to protect privacy - it is
not obvious what my neighbor Mrs. Smith is checking out since the title
is covered by the wrapper.

We process 70,000 reserves per year. That's 140 reams of paper. Do you
have a successful means of identifying reserves that requires less paper
and also protects member privacy?

Mary Jo Finch

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">circulation</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
From your description, I assume the patrons go and pick up their own
books? this might not work for you, as my local branch keeps them behind
the circ desk, and you have to request for them to get any books you
have on hold.

Rather than cover the book, they print out something that's more
bookmark sized -- it has the person's name at the top, and then the
information. It's placed in the book so that the person's name is
visible, but it's in a small enough font that someone would have to be
close (or use a camera w/ zoom, from the correct angle, which would be
difficult for all but those on one side of the shelves)

The general public might be able to make out what books have been
pulled, but they can't easily tell exactly who they're for. (they might
be able to guess, as the shelving is by patron name, so you might be
able to tell it's someone whose name starts with 'S', but you can't get
an exact person.)

It's been a few years since I've requested a book through ILL, so I
haven't looked at exactly what's on one of the slips, but I'd assume
you'd likely want the pull date printed above the patron's name in a
larger font to make it easier to identify those that were abandoned.

### Comments ###

Answer by NiceOrc
----------------
We have a bookmark sized printout, which is shut in the book so that the
borrower's name is showing at the top. Then the book is put on the holds
shelf, but spine down. Our holds shelf is in the public area, and
borrowers collect their own holds.

When we first started putting holds out on a publicly-accessible shelf,
privacy issues were brought up. We decided that if anyone objected to
having their books "on display", we could keep their holds behind the
desk and the borrower could ask for them. We had a sign to this effect,
but after a year no-one had objected. Some people have commented that
they like seeing what other books are being requested, so they can add
to their TBR list.

Edited to add: ![holds slip](http://i.stack.imgur.com/XNWGC.png)

Sorry, crappy scan, but the slips are 8cm x 12.5cm, and are printed on
thermal paper, on an Epson receipt printer. The font can be changed so
that the name prints larger.

### Comments ###
* Mary Jo Finch: Are you using a thermal receipt printer or some other kind of printer? I
would love to see a picture of one of your bookmarks. Is that possible?

Answer by mrsaych
----------------
I have worked in places where bookmark sized slips are printed (printed
on thermal paper on epson printers), but the name is omitted from the
slip for privacy reasons. The books are filed by membership card number.
To make it easier to find reserves, there were shelf markers with number
ranges on them. By doing this, the books are publicly displayed but they
cannot be associated with a particular individual (unless you had
memorized their card number!). I guess this could also fulfill other
borrowers' desire to look at what other people are reading without
disclosing identities!

### Comments ###

Answer by Ang
----------------
At the local public library, I believe they use tape on the spine, and
the name is written on that with a marker.

### Comments ###
* NiceOrc: The name of the borrower? This seems a little messy, but good in terms
of not constantly using pieces of paper. What happens with very slim
books/magazines?

Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
At the university library where I work, for holds that come from within
our group of libraries, and not through ILL, little slips are printed
(routing slips) rather than anything that wraps around the book. The
slips have the book title, the date, and the name of the person the book
is going to. They then get sorted at circulation, and given to the
patrons as they come request their holds.

As for ILL requests/holds, those have a band of paper (thermal, I
believe - I don't print them, I just band and stamp them as appropriate
and deliver them to circulation) that go around the cover and have more
info, like the lending insititution and the patron's name and the
university name, fine information, due date, etc.

### Comments ###

