---
title: "Specific guidelines for establishing a memorial collection"
layout: default
---
Specific guidelines for establishing a memorial collection
=====================
Some public libraries are quite fortunate to have benefactors who are
generous with their time and money, and some spend their lives giving to
the library.

More often than not, I would say (without being overly liberal my
measurement), these "patron" patrons love books themselves and have
quite a collection.

Ideally, the library would purchase additional copies of these books to
exist as "loaners" in the main circulation, and the rest could be either
displayed or archived.

What would be a good access policy for those books that were one of a
kind (and thereby non-circulating), or for that matter, the originals of
which loaner copies were obtained? So, how should they be made
available? In a special archival room?

jonsca

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Playing my Not A Gifts-and-Acquisitions Librarian card before I try to
answer...

In general, library gift/donation/bequest policies make crystal clear
that the library is in *no way* obligated to accept, much less keep,
much less *preserve*, any gift or bequest of books given it. If
libraries had to keep every bequest of a library-lover, we'd drown in
ancient duplicate National Geographics. It's just not on.

Unless a willed collection contains extremely rare or valuable books,
any kind of bequest with "you must keep this collection intact" strings
attached would be declined -- and even one containing such paragon books
would only be accepted with a heavy sigh. Shelf space is neither free
nor infinite. Cataloging is expensive. Current, popular, quality books
tailored to the library's patron base should not be crowded out by books
that are none of those things but came with a legal obligation attached.

In the normal course of things, a bequest of books would be winnowed for
no-hopers by gifts/acquisitions librarians, then the remainder
scrutinized by the library's collection developers, who would make a
per-book keep-or-toss decision (where "toss" might well mean "sell," for
a book with monetary value but little use-value to the local patron
base). Books that duplicate the library's existing collection will
typically be kept only if demand warrants an extra copy or if the
bequest copy is in better condition than the library's copy, in which
case it would likely replace it.

For non-duplicate books, the chances of an additional "loaner copy"
being purchased are minimal to zero, though digitization may be a
possibility if the condition and copyright status of the book permit.
Ranganathan's First Law of Library Science: *Books are for use.* Not for
sentiment, not for display alone, *use*. If nobody's going to use it,
most libraries won't keep it. (The exception is research libraries,
whose mission includes perpetual access to the scholarly record -- and
even they are starting to do this work consortially rather than
individually.)

If a book is legitimately rare or otherwise valuable, an academic or
research library will generally route it to the Special Collections
department, where it will receive a heightened level of care and
security (which, alas, often means somewhat lessened access; I'll let
special-collections librarians elaborate on this). Since
special-collections departments have subject specialties, some
book-trading goes on among them; a rare book may hop to a library where
it fits better with what else is in special collections. Some public
libraries or their consortia may have special collections, but most will
sell such books on, knowing themselves less in need of them and unable
to care for them properly.

### Comments ###
* Simon Spero: What she said; except that only original cataloging is truly expensive;
copy cataloging has very low marginal costs. Of course, if the book has
already been catalogued, the level of rarity is low.
* Simon Spero: Also, trained museologists may be able to help you talk the donation up
from just the books to a new building ( DC 35)

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
Do you mean "one of a kind", or just rare?

Access policies should be based around donor intent. If the donor may
not want material to circulate, or may not want parts of the collection
to be made available before a certain date, you should capture and
implement those policies.

Even if the works are non-circulating, you may be able to provide and
present a catalog of the collection (maybe by creating a special
location for holdings records?) If many or most of the works are in the
public domain, or are licensed to you and your patrons, you can recreate
the collections digitally (LibraryThing did this for the collections of
people like Thomas Jefferson).

In some or many case you may be able to make copies for preservation
purposes - see 17 USC 108 for the library/archive exemptions to
copyright.

If the items are of high value, then you should prepare them for
conservation, and keep them in a climate controlled room. There is a
simple introduction to the subject at LC, which should answer some
questions. See
[http://www.loc.gov/preservation/care/books.html](http://www.loc.gov/preservation/care/books.html)

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Probably more "rare" than truly one-of-a-kind, but info for either is
great.

