---
title: "What are the advantages and disadvantages of using ZFS for storage in a digital repository?"
layout: default
---
What are the advantages and disadvantages of using ZFS for storage in a digital repository?
=====================
File systems typically divide the devices they address into discrete
blocks. For instance on a system with 1024 byte blocks, a 1.5 kb file
will be occupy two entire blocks. What makes ZFS different from other
file systems like FAT32, Ext4, and NTFS is ZFS records a checksum for
every block of data, for the table of block pointers, and up the chain
to the entire file system. When a file is requested, ZFS automatically
computes and compares the checksums for every block of the file before
delivering it to the user.

In most digital preservation systems, fixity checks are performed on the
file by a program accessing a database of checksums. ZFS does this on
the hardware level. Is it a suitable replacement for file-level fixity
checks? Are there digital repositories using ZFS?

Edit: I'm also wondering how device fixity checks compare to software
fixity checks in terms of efficiency.

Nick Krabbenhoeft

### Comments ###
* dsalo: How does a system like this detect tampering? Eve gets into the system
and overwrites a file she shouldn't. In a file-based checksum system,
it's detected. ZFS doesn't grok "files," just "blocks," so when Eve
replaces the file, it just recalculates checksums on the system, no?
* Trevor Owens: @dsalo As I understand this, ZFS style systems can resolve issues around
bitrot. Aside from that it's just a drive. So all of the bit level
threats that come from curitorial error and damage to physical media are
in play. So systems for who can do what when and geo-replication are
still necessary.
* dsalo: Returning to the original question, however, the answer to "is it a
suitable replacement for file-level fixity checks?" would seem to be
"no," because Bad Stuff can happen to files that block-level checks
won't catch.
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: My motivation in asking was that it might be more computationally
efficient to run fixity checks on the entire repository with a low-level
system like ZFS than with a software solution. Thanks for pointing out
the file-level problems, I'll have to think more if they can be
accounted for with other systems like write once read many.
* Martin Schröder: Use a database instead of a file system. If you have to use a file
system, seriously consider ZFS. \`:-)\`


Answer by woliveirajr
----------------
The [ZFS filesystem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZFS) is, as it says, a
filesystem: it's how a Operating System (OS) stores his files in some
media, be it one single hard-disk drive of a RAID system.

ZFS tries to address some problems of data integrity that some other
solutions couldn't handle well. But it does that at file level, and just
at file level: the probability of reading a file and getting a corrupted
content will be smaller.

So, using ZFS would be better because it would lead to less data
corruption events that necessitate restoring from backups, etc.

But there are limitations: not every OS can use ZFS. For example, the
ZFS license is incompatible with Linux license, so Linux doesn't have a
ZFS implementation. And the same occurs with Windows.

And another point is that it's one thing to have a system that handles a
digital repository, with all securities it implements (from access,
logging of changes, backup control...), and another thing to just save
archives in one folder and try to control the integrity there.

So, although it would be good if you could use ZFS in your system, it's
not a solution to replace digital preservation system.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: Thanks for adding the problems of OS compatibility. Are there any file
systems or storage devices with fixity checking that are more widely
available/usable? I know Oracle's T10000C tape drive can be accessed
with Linux, but there's always the danger of Oracles's capriciousness
like with the now closed-source ZFS.
* woliveirajr: you can take a look at:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison\_of\_file\_systems . In the
metadata table, you'll e seeking for the checksum/ECC column. It's said
that ext4 have it, but I'm not sure that it's as reliable as ZFS would
be. Maybe you could consider first your requirements (OS running, etc)
and then search for the \*best\* filesystem. Since you might be worried
about preservation, you should care when choosing a not-widely-used
filesystem, because the lack of support might be a problem in the
future.

Answer by Chris Adams
----------------
Filesystem level checks are a great foundation for an archival system
for two reasons:

1.  The filesystem should perform this check *every* time a file is
    accessed, making it impossible to silently receive corrupted data.
    If your higher-level software doesn't provide this, it's almost
    certain that you'll eventually experience a problem where something
    is corrupted and accessed before an audit catches it.

2.  The filesystems can perform data-integrity checks ("scrubbing") in
    the background, often when the storage subsystem is otherwise idle,
    reducing the performance impact and need for periodic manual scans.

3.  Filesystem based checksums can be far more efficient for random I/O
    because they're stored at the block level rather than the entire
    file. This is usually not a major consideration but in some
    scenarios where only part of the file is read it can be a
    significant performance benefit while providing full integrity
    checks (e.g. reading file metadata, preserving large databases, or
    JPEG-2000s which are used for thumbnails far more often full
    decoded).

(Note that while ZFS is the most famous option in this regard,
[btrfs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Btrfs) and even NetApp's
[WAFL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Write_Anywhere_File_Layout) have
some similar protections, albeit less thorough in the latter case)

This is not complete, however, as there are multiple other problems to
be concerned with:

1.  Higher level failures: e.g. if data is corrupted on the network, ZFS
    has no way of telling that the bits it methodically protected
    weren't actually the ones you wanted. Similarly, you can trust the
    bytes you read off of ZFS to be intact but you can't verify that
    they were received by a remote user unless you have some end to end
    checks (e.g. setting and validating HTTP Content-MD5 headers)

2.  Human error: no filesystem protects against a human accidentally or
    intentionally overwriting a file, although snapshots can help at
    least in the former case.

3.  Replication: knowing that my bits are reliable still doesn't tell me
    whether you and I have the same file, or that I have a full and
    complete copy of a multi-file item. Something like a bag manifest is
    still necessary to address this and \#1, and hopefully at least
    detect \#2.

Lastly, while filesystem-level features like ZFS's send/receive can also
be very handy for efficient replication, compatibility is a big concern
if you're worried about the longevity of a particular platform.

One other category of software to consider would be something like
[OpenStack's Swift](http://swift.openstack.org/) which provides similar
characteristics - full integrity checks, automatic redundancy
management, user-invisible scalability - but does so using any available
filesystem by providing the checks at a higher level. As with something
like ZFS, it's not a replacement for a higher-level repository system
but it is an interesting choice for a foundation which solves a number
of hard low-level problems so you can focus on the higher-level ones.

### Comments ###

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
ZFS does not do checks at the hardware level, but the computation is
fast enough to not make that much of a difference.

The design of ZFS makes it very inexpensive to create snapshots of
filesystems; these snapshots are copy-on-write, so they don't waste much
space in the storage pool. This makes them suitable for use as part of
scientific data workflows; the source code, data, and libraries used for
a run can be snapshotted, and the output data captured as well. This
facilitates replication. Snapshots can be exported for remote archiving.

The big advantage of ZFS over storing a file checksum in a bag or
database is that corruption is detected and repaired. The block/checksum
hierarchy makes it easier to detect whether it is the checksum itself
that is corrupted.

An alternative to checksums and mirroring is to use a FEC type coding
systems that can recover the correct signal from corrupted symbols. See
e.g. [RAPTORQ](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6330) (though note [the
patent issues](http://datatracker.ietf.org/ipr/1292/) - claims are only
waived for IETF standard or experimental broadcast/multicast object
delivery protocol not using wide area wireless). This might permit use
in a massively distributed online archival storage mesh (e.g. using
unused storage space on desktop computers, as an archival equivalent of
fold-at-home).

BTW, although Oracle stopped releasing ZFS as open source, they could
not take back the versions that were already released, and there is a
vibrant open source community maintaining the code- For example
[MacZFS](http://code.google.com/p/maczfs/) for MacOS. FreeBSD includes
ZFS by default.

[A native Linux port is being developed at Lawrence
Livermore](https://github.com/zfsonlinux/) - the project lead is Brian
Behlendorf of Apache fame. GPL stupidity prevents ZFS from being bundled
with the software, but it does not prevent the software from being
downloaded and run as a kernel module- for ubuntu, try:

> \$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:zfs-native/stable
>
> \$ sudo apt-get update
>
> \$ sudo apt-get install ubuntu-zfs

[Not the most hilarious free/open-source license complaint (the license
discussed is GPL incompatible for the same
reason)](http://wonko.com/post/jsmin-isnt-welcome-on-google-code)-
what's the GOOG motto again?

### Comments ###

