---
title: "How to generate a cutter number for a book"
layout: default
---
How to generate a cutter number for a book
=====================
I am new to Library of Congress Classification system and trying to
understand how would I create a cutter number for a particular book
manually. In fact, I am trying to build a software for library where I
would like my software to generate call number using library of congress
system automatically for librarians.

I found this cutter table but could not really understand anything.
[http://staff.library.mun.ca/staff/toolbox/tables/lccutter.htm](http://staff.library.mun.ca/staff/toolbox/tables/lccutter.htm)

akpa

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">academic-libraries</li><li class="tag">school-libraries</li><li class="tag">small-libraries</li><li class="tag">library-of-congress</li><li class="tag">cutter</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* akpa: Just found a link which nicely explains the cutter table with example
[here](https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:7FepN0KoGscJ:myweb.liu.edu/\~mkipp/512/512cutterhowto.pdf+library+of+congress+cutter+number+example&hl=en&gl=au&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESg-fwbPWOMAgMoJ7xZH2roU0QCdAvpwPxJE6r4laxMZHf8qkPkCqpjKvjNQa5uiUpzphbH9dPcSyjfdQuqG2Hb1QIzQ1-L4yvL7eaizT1UUGKo7p57K-5-a5wh5Lv\_Kzt6BKvyc&sig=AHIEtbRSMYeGzHqlEO2hUtbbFg5B4diPvw)
* Jakob: Cutter numbers seem to be kind of a random hashing methods: every
library can define its own rules and nobody publishes an (open source)
implementation :-(


Answer by viola voß
----------------
The library of the university of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (Germany) created
a tool for cutter numbers:
[http://www-ub.ku-eichstaett.de/cgi-bin/cutterjo.pl](http://www-ub.ku-eichstaett.de/cgi-bin/cutterjo.pl).
You enter the name or the title word to be cuttered and the tool gives
you the cutter number, e.g. "L697" for "Library". There are similar
tools like this by other libraries, I think.

### Comments ###

Answer by yo_bj
----------------
Another suggestion is the The Cataloging Calculator at
[http://calculate.alptown.com/](http://calculate.alptown.com/). Not only
does it generate cutter numbers, but it's also handy when dealing with
various codes and MARC fields.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: This tools seems to generate different cutter numbers compared to the
tool at UB Eichstätt, so which is the right one?
* yo_bj: Using the "Library" example, the Calculator is using a similar LC cutter
table posted in the question above. I'm not sure which table the German
example is running off of. You are correct in your earlier statement,
though; each library plays around with local cutter numbers to make
things fit in their local shelflist. This is one of those local
practices that you have to look out for when dealing with call numbers.

Answer by gugek
----------------
Cuttering and shelflisting are often local policies, but generally they
do follow the same framework in most libraries, especially if they are
trying to stay compatible with Library of Congress Classification and
call numbers.

Because cutter numbers are only synthesized when the filing order of the
existing works in a catalog will *fit* the work in the correct place in
the shelflist. Thus when you see a cutter that doesn't match the
synthesis rule it often means that the work was then manually filed into
the shelflist.

Cutters
-------

The source for Library of Congress Classification cuttering and
shelflisting lives in the Library of Congress' *Classification and
Shelflisting Manual* (available in Cataloger's Desktop) the general
instructions for *Cutter Numbers* are in G63. The cutter number appears
in a number of places in LCC call numbers:

1.  Book number: Which are organized to ensures that books on a shelf
    are filed in a logical and consistent order according to the
    arrangement dictated by the classification schedule. Typically
    alphabetical by main entry (or authorized access point for the work)

        .C87 = Curtis, James
        .V57 = Virtual reality for beginners.

2.  Geographic or topical numbers: Which are used within LCC to
    subdivide a topic by a facet. Examples include

        .U55 = United States
        .T7  = Toy Piano
        .N83 = Nuclear power industry

    These are already often dictated by the schedules, but generally
    they are formulated according to the synthesis instructions below.
    One area that is sort of also prearranged in the *Classification and
    Shelflisting Manual* are geographical cutters, which are important
    since sometimes names of jurisdictions change, and we sometimes want
    to keep putting them together.

3.  Other subdivisions: Which include areas within a LC Classification
    number to ensure that certain forms or formats are filed before
    other material within a given classification. These cutter numbers
    are prescribed by the classification schedule. Examples:

        .A6 = Conferences, Congresses etc. (in some K tables) 
        .Z46 = Autobiographies, journals, memoirs. By Date (P-PZ40 table)

Description of LC Call Numbers
------------------------------

A normal LCC call number can have up to two cutter numbers, in addition
to the classification. So a typical example for a single authored
literary work, using *Reamde* by Neal Stephenson:

    | element | note                    |
    |---------+-------------------------|
    | PS      | Class                   |
    | 3569    | Class Number            |
    | .T3868  | Cutter for Author       |
    | R43     | Cutter for Work (title) |
    | 2011    | Date of Publication     |

Shelflisting
------------

G63 describes the steps for shelflisting and using Cutter numbers:

> 1.  Finding the filing position in the shelflist. Consult the class
>     number in the shelflist. Find the proper location for the work
>     being shelflisted. That is, determine where the work is to file
>     according to standard shelflisting practices. In many cases, this
>     will be in alphabetical order by main entry or title.
>
> 2.  Cuttering for words. After determining the filing position of the
>     work, consider whether use of the following table to create the
>     Cutter will achieve the proper position. If so, use the table. If
>     not, complete the Cutter in order to fit in alphabetically with
>     works already shelflisted.
>
> 3.  Cuttering for numerals. When Cuttering for Roman or Arabic
>     numerals, use the Cutters .A12 - .A19. However, if entries already
>     in the shelflist have been assigned "documents numbers" (e.g. .A5
>     for the corporate heading United States. Dept. of ...) Cutter
>     numerals to file directly after those entries. Because of the
>     infinite range of numbers, choose a Cutter toward the center of
>     the available span when Cuttering for the first numeral in a
>     class. This will allow room for both smaller and larger numbers.
>     Follow this practice even with relatively low numbers since
>     decimal fractions are filed in numeric order before the number 1.
>
Cutter Table
------------

When synthesizing a number follow the cutter table.

### After initial *vowels*

    | for the second letter: | b | d | l-m | n | p | r | s-t | u-y |
    |------------------------+---+---+-----+---+---+---+-----+-----|
    | use number:            | 2 | 3 |   4 | 5 | 6 | 7 |   8 |   9 |

### After initial letter *S*

    | for the second letter: | a | ch | e | h-i | m-p | t | u | w-y |
    |------------------------+---+----+---+-----+-----+---+---+-----|
    | use number:            | 2 |  3 | 4 |   5 |   6 | 7 | 8 |   9 |

### After initial letters *Qu*

    | for the second letter: | a | e | i | o | r | t | y |
    |------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---|
    | use number:            | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 |

### For initial letters *Qa-Qt*

    | use numbers | 2-29 |

### After other initial *consonants*

    | for the second letter: | a | e | i | o | r | u | y |
    |------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---|
    | use number:            | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 |

### For *expansion*

    | for the letter: | a-d | e-h | i-l | m-o | p-s | t-v | w-z |
    |-----------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----|
    | use number:     |   3 |   4 |   5 |   6 |   7 |   8 |   9 |

Synthesis
---------

### Example: Reamde / Neal Stephenson

    100 1# $a Stephenson, Neal.
    245 10 $a Reamde / $c Neal Stephenson.
    250 ## $a 1st ed.
    260 ## $a New York : $b William Morrow, $c c2011.
    300 ## $a 1044 p. ; $c 24 cm.

1.  Classification number for a 20th century American writer is
    *PS3569*.\
     `050 #4 $a PS3569`
2.  Instructions in the LC Classification Schedule for *PS3569* says:

    > The author number is determined by the second letter of the name

    1.  Start with *T*
    2.  Second letter E. Look under *After other initial consonants*: E
        maps to 4. Our cutter so far is *T4*.
    3.  Expand one more letter for the third letter P. Look under *For
        the expansion*: P maps to 7. Our cutter now is *T47*.
    4.  Extend out the cutter more using the expansion table if needed
        in order to file within the existing shelflist. Going one more
        we have H which maps to 4 making. Out cutter now is *T474* with
        a corresponding `050` field of:\
         `050 #4 $a PS3569.T474`

3.  Looking at the [Library of Congress
    Record](http://lccn.loc.gov/2011020573) we see however that the
    class number is something a bit different `050 ## $a PS3569.T3868`
    This implies that this cutter was modified in order to fit the names
    in the existing arrangement. Which is likely since many last names
    begin with `S` and literary fiction is a fairly crowded part of the
    shelflist.
4.  The call number is not complete however, there is a second cutter
    that the instructions in the PS classification schedules
    (PS3550-3576) direct us to:

    > Subarrange individual authors by Table P-PZ40 unless otherwise
    > specified\
    >  Including usually authors beginning to publish about 1950,
    > flourishing after 1960

    Table P-PZ then in turn instructs the cutter to be created for
    separate works, by the title of the work, filed between the cutters
    A61 and Z458. Following our tables:

    1.  First letter of Reamde is **R**.
    2.  Second letter is E. We look in the **After other initial
        consonants** table: and see that E corresponds to 4. That makes
        our cutter so far **R4**.
    3.  Third letter is A. We now look in the expansion table: See that
        A maps to 3. That makes our cutter now: **R43**.
    4.  Usually we stop at the third letter (second number of the
        cutter). Most authors are not prolific enough to justify needing
        to cutter out to a third level.

    Note here that if you had a work like
    `245 10 $a Zodiac / $c Neal Stephenson` that it would go in the same
    classification **PS3569.T3868** but would then get cuttered
    differently by its title *Zodiac*. However, we can not follow the
    synthesis rules since they would create a cutter of *Z63* which does
    not fall in the permitted range for separate works that the P-PZ40
    table instructs us is between **A61** and **Z458**. In that case we
    then would toss the tables out and then manually file the title
    starting with **Z** but giving ourselves a bit of space in the
    advent we get another work with a title that files after *Zodiac*.

### Ambiguity

Unfortunately as you can probably see from the table not all letters are
explicitly listed out. And in addition with the expansion table, a range
of numbers are listed which leaves some issues with creating the
appropriate number. In those case you then attempt to file in a way that
will fit the item in alphabetically with works already cuttered.

### Note About Filing

Yes libraries like filing. And they've got rules about them. They are
extremely detailed. But generally we are filing on the first element of
the string, in order to get an alphabetical arrangement. This is
documented in the Library of Congress Filing Rules and the G100
instruction sheet [outdated version
here](http://www.itsmarc.com/crs/mergedProjects/scmshelf/scmshelf/g_100_filing_rules_shelf.htm).
Some important things to note when filing.

-   File as-is.
-   Ignore diactrics.
-   Ignore initial articles.
-   Hyphens break words.
-   Initialisms are complicated.
-   File titles until the end of the first significant punctuation
    {'.','/','('}

    > Education today / 1966\
    >  Education today. 1966\
    >  Education today / by John Smith. 1969\
    >  Education today. 1977\
    >  Education today (Boston) [serial]\
    >  Education today--and how it works. 1970\
    >  Education today : language teaching. 1966

-   Numbers before letters

-   Ampersand is the only character that has a value.
-   Single surnames before compound surnames:

    > Ho, Chien Min\
    >  Ho, Tien\
    >  Ho Tang, Marsha



### Comments ###

