---
title: "What is best practice for TV series collection development?"
layout: default
---
What is best practice for TV series collection development?
=====================
I work in a public library and have just been assigned TV series on DVD
as a collection development area. I am looking for a guideline
concerning when (not) to replace damaged items. Ideally, for all the
shows we buy, we would have at least one copy of each season; however,
is it worth replacing older seasons of less popular shows, especially if
there are other copies of that season in other libraries in the
consortium? If there is a best practice for this, I would love to know.

Jenny Arch

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">collection-development</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
This is a highly individualized decision that depends on a number of
things:

-   Real estate: Is shelf space at a premium in your DVD section? Maybe
    you'd rather use the space for something more popular/newer.
-   Budget: Maybe you'd prefer to use your budget for something more
    popular/newer.
-   Requests: How often is the material requested? Look for the
    break-even point between cost of ILL vs cost of replacement. How
    many ILL requests equal a replacement?
-   The materials: What does the circulation data for the series in
    question tell you? Quite often you'll find that it is the early
    shows that get checked out the most as people have gotten hooked on
    a series on television, but missed the early seasons and have come
    to the library to "catch up." Alternately, they start watching a
    series of DVDs from the beginning, and then they lose interest as
    they go on. Also, some series are more sequential than others: it
    may feel more necessary to replace a season of *Mad Men*, where
    characters and stories develop over time, than a season of
    *Friends*. And some series are newer and therefore more topical and
    worthy of replacement.
-   Policy: Do check your collection policy for guidance.

I used to order DVDs for a small public library, and I came to think of
that collection as somewhat fluid. I was not building a collection so
much as I was keeping it fresh. DVDs came and went, attrition by loss or
damage, and generally I found it best to spend money on new things
rather than replacing old things as this invigorated circulation and
made our collection worth visiting, even though it was small.

### Comments ###

