---
title: "How do you handle lost disks in a multi-disk DVD or CD package?"
layout: default
---
How do you handle lost disks in a multi-disk DVD or CD package?
=====================
The [question on TV show collection
development](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/1044/what-is-best-practice-for-tv-series-collection-development)
made me think of another problem with TV series and audio books --

How do you deal with multi-disk packages when there's a single lost or
damaged disk?

Is there any equivalent of a car salvage yard, where we can report or
send our partial sets, so that someone could break it down into 'spare
parts' for other libraries to fill in their missing disks? (or find if
someone else can send them the missing disk from one of their broken up
collections?)

I'd be interested in if consortium or larger library systems do this,
and how they manage it ... or if anyone knows of any larger efforts to
do this.

Joe

### Comments ###


Answer by Jeanne Hamilton
----------------
A group of libraries in my area has started a shared google document
that allows libraries to post multi-part sets with missing parts. The
library posts the item title, what is missing, and whether they prefer
to give it away or receive other sets to make it a full set.

There are over 40 items listed but I am not sure whether or not any
matches have been made. It is hard to find libraries that have
compatible partial sets.

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
I don't know if this would also apply to DVDs as I don't currently know
of a vendor or publisher that does this, but some audiobook companies
sell library-specific editions and will replace missing discs for free
(if under contract) or for a reduced fee (something like \$10 a disc).

Alternately, it could be possible to find the individual disc for
(re)sale on Amazon, eBay or similar.

The other option is to charge the patron who lost the disc for the
entire set and replace the whole thing.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jenny Arch
----------------
Midwest Tape offers replacement discs for damaged discs in audiobook or
DVD sets, but replacements are not available for all items, only
top-selling ones. And, if multiple discs in a set are damaged, it might
make sense to replace the whole item. (DVD replacement:
[http://media.midwesttapes.com/pdf/dvdreplacementprogram.us.pdf](http://media.midwesttapes.com/pdf/dvdreplacementprogram.us.pdf)
Audio replacement:
[http://www.midwesttapes.com/audiointro?show=replacement](http://www.midwesttapes.com/audiointro?show=replacement))

Ours is a fairly large library, so while we don't have a shared doc with
the rest of our consortium, we do keep track of multi-part sets with
missing or damaged parts. For example, we might have two copies of
season one of The West Wing; if a few discs from one set were damaged
and we withdrew the item, we would keep the undamaged discs as backups
for the second copy. It's not a perfect solution, but it's better than
nothing.

### Comments ###
* Joe: Good to know there's someone out there that offers the service. I
suspect that you're seeing something else for the second link than the
rest of us who aren't logged in. (I get the same as their home page)
* Jenny Arch: Sorry Joe. Here's the gist: Midwest Tape's Audiobook Replacement Program
is designed for customers who need to replace one or two discs of a
set...Our Replacement Program is available to all our customers; you
don't have to be a member of a Customized Standing Order Plan to
purchase replacement titles. Replacements are available for our most
popular Fiction, Non-Fiction, and Children's titles, including NYT Best
Selling Titles and Authors. We update the list of available titles daily
and add hundreds of new titles each year, and all our audiobook
replacements are only \$9.99 per disc.

