---
title: "What are the pros and cons to encrypting digital files a Library or Archive is preserving?"
layout: default
---
What are the pros and cons to encrypting digital files a Library or Archive is preserving?
=====================
Encrypting content could help ease fears about unauthorized access (say
to copyrighted materials or sensitive information) but it results in a
dependency on encryption keys. I would be curious to know what people
see as the pros and cons of encrypting content a stewardship
organization is preserving. With the pros and cons in mind, when (if
ever) do you think a responsible organization should be encrypting files
they are preserving and when do you think they shouldn't?

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
Pros:

-   Restricted access
-   Encryption protects confidential information and prevents
    unauthorized copying of commercial materials.

Cons:

-   Increased vulnerability to bit rot - Bit rot in an encrypted object
    would result in severe loss, since the object could only be
    decrypted up to the bit loss or it would be completely illegible.
    This is mitigated by a good fixity check and backup system.

-   Maintaining the keys - Using keys to access contents introduces more
    dependencies for continued access to the object. This is mitigated
    by a good fixity check and backup system and recording the
    relationship in metadata.

-   Encryptions getting cracked - AES is a very strong encryption
    standard; however, because it's a math problem, mathematicians are
    constantly trying to create [faster-than-brute-force
    solutions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard#Known_attacks).
    Public-key encryption might be stronger against brute force attacks,
    but quantum computers would render it trivial. Once any encryption
    is cracked, all restricted files would have to be re-encrypted.
    (Maybe with [quantum
    encryption](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_cryptography).)

Personally, encryption for restricted files is not appealing. It
increases the repository's exposure to catastrophic losses and the
demands on the repository's internal and external monitoring processes.
I would prefer to restrict access with locked-down terminals in
controlled locations, strong user authentication requirements for remote
access, or other solutions.

An intermediary solution might be the iTunes solution. Songs on its
central server are encrypted, but the key is stored in the file. When
you buy a song, this key is encrypted with a random key unique to your
account.

Only in cases where information must remain protected (e.g. NSA servers)
does a repository of encrypted data warrant the preservation risks.

### Comments ###

Answer by Cory Snavely
----------------
Pros:

-   A reiteration of the above, which I think is generally agreed upon:
    strong encryption reduces worries associated with unauthorized
    access to preservation copies of materials (such as copyrighted
    data). This may in turn enable relatively insecure (read: "cheap" or
    "cloud") infrastructure to be used for the preservation of highly
    sensitive materials.

-   Encryption doubles as an authenticity check, and in fact, some
    encryption methods involve the creation of a digital signature that
    can be used for provenance or bit rot detection.

Cons:

-   Encryption causes file size bloat to the tune of 20-30%.

-   For light archives, encryption imparts a performance penalty for
    systems that need to extract the content from the preservation
    archive for access purposes.

-   Another re-iteration: long-term secure preservation of the
    encryption keys themselves is typically raised as a legitimate
    concern. Fundamentally this problem is the result of two conflicting
    requirements: that the encryption keys be held by as few entities as
    possible to maintain their security, but also that they be easily
    acquired in disaster scenarios. I suggest that digital preservation
    repositories can mitigate (yet not fully eliminate) this concern by
    developing a management system for the encryption keys that
    leverages the technology frameworks (such as that for maintaining
    multiple copies with integrity checks) and policy frameworks (such
    as robust succession plans) that they ostensibly *should* have in
    place by virtue of being qualified digital preservation
    repositories. One can imagine an architecture, for example, where
    encryption keys are safely stored within the repository itself and
    encrypted using a Shamir's Secret Sharing scheme that would require
    the consensual participation of any seven of thirteen parties named
    in the succession plan in order to obtain them.

Not-cons: :)

-   Personally, I don't buy the blanket argument that encryption
    increases the risk of bit rot because the argument assumes that the
    unencrypted form of the object is in fact resilient to single-bit
    error. I suggest that this risk be evaluated on a case-by-case
    basis, and depending on the architecture of the repository, may
    represent no additional preservation risk. Moreover, I suspect that
    many if not most preservation repositories store content that is
    already sensitive to single-bit error by virtue of compression or
    the intrinsic nature of certain file formats.

As with almost every other design aspect of digital preservation
repositories, the use of encryption presents both utility and risk that
should be carefully considered.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: The chance of bit rot loss on a file level is probably similar between
encrypted and unencrypted files. However, if you're packaging other
objects with the original like metadata or access copies, all the
objects accumulate the risks of their neighbors. To avoid that, you'd
have to encrypt below the AIP level. A good system prevents bit rot, but
I think it's better to plan for the contingency.
* Chris Adams: Note that while some encryption systems can increase file size, this is
just an artifact of those systems rather than an unavoidable rule. Run
something like \`openssl aes-256-cbc -in file -out encrypted\_file\` to
confirm.
* Chris Adams: Also: very strong +1 on rejecting the bit rot argument. bit rot needs to
be addressed separately and comprehensively, not by hoping that files
can be painfully recovered later.

Answer by Henk Koning
----------------
I recently have been doing some experimentation with encryption. I think
at this moment that encryption is a useful and easy way to add one extra
layer of protection, in the (rare) cases where this is felt necessary
above the established level of security.

All security measures can lose their effectiveness over time, so all
measures must be actively managed.

There is indeed a 'problem' of the management of the decryption keys.
This problem should not be exaggerated. I have been looking for best
practices for managing decryption keys, but up until now found no good
reference for this. Any references welcome!

I can offer these points for consideration: - the decryption keys should
be stored in way that is technically and logically sufficiently
separated from the storage of the corresponding files, so that an
intruder who achieves access to the encrypted files is not likely to
have access to the decryption keys. This is a very important point and
should be considered carefully and repeatedly (external security
audit?). - the decryption keys should never be transported together with
the related encrypted files - storage of the decryption keys does not /
should not have a higher level of security as the storage of the
encrypted files. The reason for this is that the organization is
probably not familiar with higher levels of security, and higher levels
of security introduce risks (too few people informed; unfamiliar
technical solutions; no security audits because it is so little data) -
don't use generic decryption keys which apply to a lot of files

Whether these suggestion really apply depends very much on the scenario
you have in mind. At this moment I am thinking of a small number of
selected files in our archive which are encrypted.

A completely different scenario would be an extra copy of all the files
in our archive stored somewhere in the cloud, with all the files having
the same decryption key. In this scenario it is not the problem of the
management of decryption keys, but the management of this single one
decryption key. Probably known only within a small circle of technical
supporters. A loss of the key is no problem, as long as it is discovered
soon. In that case the level of added data security because of the extra
copy of all the files is lowered until a new copy is produced. The same
goes for the account information and the passwords you need to access
the extra copy. A seed based on the file name and path can help here. If
you don't trust the cloud environment all encrypting and decrypting
should take place in the original data environment.

### Comments ###

