---
title: "How do you identify electronic resources actually purchased via Patron Driven Aquisitions vs. those available?"
layout: default
---
How do you identify electronic resources actually purchased via Patron Driven Aquisitions vs. those available?
=====================
With vendors like ebrary, EBSCO, etc. providing [Patron Driven
Acquisitions](http://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2011/05/31/what-patron-driven-acquisition-pda-does-and-doesnt-mean-an-faq/)
models, libraries are loading thousands (tens of thousands, really) of
records for items they do not actually hold, electronically or
otherwise.

This makes sense from a discovery standpoint, but it undermines the
catalog's *other* role as an inventory control system.

If your library is participating in such a model, what do you do to
identify resources that have actually been purchased vs. what is merely
available for purchase? Is your method machine-readable (available, not
necessarily indexed, via, e.g., Z39.50)?

Are there any standards or conventions around this?

Ross Singer

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">ebooks</li><li class="tag">collection-management</li><li class="tag">standards</li><li class="tag">patron-driven</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by ND Geek
----------------
As far as I'm aware, there isn't currently a standard. Our practice is
to add a label of some sort to the MARC record identifying the
"available" records that is replaced by a "purchased" label when the
item is selected via PDA. We've indexed this field in our ILS, which
allows us to quickly retrieve/hide them from our OPAC and discovery
system (if you're using a deposit account and it runs out, for example),
and we also used this field to purge the non-purchased records when our
pilot program expired, without purging the purchased ones.

I can't comment on whether or not this is available via Z39.50 (I'm just
not experienced enough with Z39.50 to say one way or another), but it's
a standardized field internally (that is machine-populated on
load/purchase) that allows us to reliably retrieve the records via our
ILS's retrieval jobs.

### Comments ###
* Ross Singer: Do you know offhand which fields/subfields you used for this? Also, are
these records excluded from exporting to union catalogs and the like?

