---
title : What is the Collaborative Summer Library Program?
---
What is the Collaborative Summer Library Program?
=====================
What is the CSLP? Is membership in CSLP required to host a Summer
Reading Club at a public library? What are the benefits to being a CSLP
library - or not being one?

KatieR

### Comments ###


Answer by Fisher
----------------
Question 1: The [Collaborative Summer Library
Program](http://www.cslpreads.org/about.html) is a group of states that
use the benefits of being a large group to create and implement a summer
reading program that is low cost and high-quality.

Members of the group (including: 50 states, the District of Columbia,
America Samoa and Mariana Islands, along with the Cayman Islands as a
Provisional Member. All public libraries in member states are included
in the memberships) send two representatives (in my state, they are the
heads of Youth Services for the state's library system) attend annual
meetings and vote on themes, illustrators, vendors, and more. Every
individual who belongs has the opportunity to voice their ideas & needs
to their representatives, who bring these to the wider group.

The CSLP votes on the themes several years ahead of time in order to
secure artwork, create manuals (with both rules & regulations,
particularly around copyright, as well as member-submitted suggestions
for programs, crafts, contests, decorating, activities, reading lists
and more), sort out vendors and otherwise organize it.

Question 2: No, you do not have to belong to CSLP to run a Summer
Reading Club. Libraries have run individual or regional summer reading
programs they design & execute themselves. You do have to belong to CSLP
to use the copyrighted artwork, however, and the other benefits outlined
in answer to Question 3.

Question 3: As above, the copyrighted artwork is one benefit. For
example, children's illustrator Brian Lies created images & posters to
be used with the 2012 Children's theme. You also receive the manual
(passed out in CD form with the artwork on it where computers are
common; in hole-punched binder-ready style for those without computers),
there's an online forum, themed incentives & decorations (the cost of
which is much cheaper given the bulk numbers the size of the CSLP can
pull in), and the time savings not having to come up with a unique theme
every year. In my state, the state library system provides some of the
paper goods for free (subsidized by the state's sponsors, a state
sport's team): posters, bookmarks, reading logs. Oh, yes, and the CSLP
comes up with related themes for Children, Teen & Adult Services.

As for the benefits of not belonging or participating, you would have
the ability to create your own theme (could be a pro if you like the
creative freedom or don't like the theme the CSLP uses). I'm also
assuming that there would be some cost savings for the state if they
didn't belong, but given the above benefits (to all public libraries
within the state), it is unlikely that those savings outweigh the
benefits.

### Comments ###

