---
title: "Is there any real distinction between File Fixity and File Integrity?"
layout: default
---
Is there any real distinction between File Fixity and File Integrity?
=====================
File fixity is a key concept in digital preservation, referring to the
property of a digital file being fixed, or unchanged. File integrity is
a much more broadly used term in the business world which seems to mean
exactly the same thing, specifically that a file is still what it was.
So, are these two concepts actually exactly the same? Or, is there any
subtle and important difference between the concepts based on the
digital preservation context vs. the business context?

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">terminology</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
I would say that fixity and integrity are related, but not the same
thing.

The problem that we can run into is that the original file that was
given to the archive may not be usable or readable over time. Something
like the BBC's Doomsday Project comes to mind -- insisting on
maintaining the original storage format means that over time, we risk
losing the ability to read it.

For science archives, there's the concept of a 'media refresh' every so
many years. In some cases, it's just a matter of writing to new physical
media to reduce the risk of bit-rot. In some cases, there will be a
repackaging of the data as well, where the files will be read, and
written back out in some different container (it may be that lots of
little tiny files are bundled up into a larger file so we're tracking
fewer total records; antiquated file formats are replaced with ones
currently in use, etc.)

Depending on the archive (and note that [the definition of 'archive' in
the science informatics
community](http://vso1.nascom.nasa.gov/vso/misc/vocab_2p2.pdf) may not
qualify as an archive to the LIS community), we may also 'add value' to
the file by changing the metadata attached to the file. In some cases,
it's additive (links to documentation, computing coordinates in
alternate systems), but in others it may create a different
interpretation of the data (eg, changing the time of the observation
(correcting for clock drift), or the location (due to corrections in
spacecraft ephemeris or telescope pointing))

In these cases, provided that the changes are properly documented, the
'integrity' of the file is still intact, but the 'fixity' is not. In
this case, the 'integrity' is probably best explained in the McCumber
model of information assurance, where we're protecting against changes
that would make someone question the validity of the data, not
necessarily against *all* changes.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Agree. Integrity may survive file-format migration; fixity doesn't.

