---
title : CV improvements for library careers
---
CV improvements for library careers
=====================
I'm currently in the process of finding and applying for jobs in the
lower echelons of the world of libraries. A couple of likely looking
assisstant/trainee jobs have come up, jobs where I could get the
experience I need to become a lot more employable in the jobs that
really interest me (data manipulation and other such arcane arts).
However after submitting my CV to each of them I've not been asked in
for an interview for any of the jobs.

So, I'm just wondering if I'm missing some key qualities they might be
looking for, and if people can suggest areas I should look into
strengthening skills sets, courses I can do to get an edge over the
other candidates, or perhaps just better ways of phrasing the standard
skills to be more attention grabbing to the people looking at my CV.
Cheers.

Alice Rees

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: Can you share your CV for us to take a look?
* Alice Rees: How do you suppose would be the best way for me to do that? It's PDF
format, so photobucket won't accept it.
* jonsca: Hi Alice, unfortunately, I don't think we have a verdict on whether very
specific career advice will be on-topic here, but for the time being we
will consider general advice to be off-topic. Most of the issues that
you are seeking help about are not specific to library professionals.
However, there is an entire site devoted to workplace questions
(http://workplace.stackexchange.com), which may have some information
that can help you. I offered your question to them, but they have said
they already have lots of questions on these issues, so you can probably
find what you need.
* jonsca: If you or anyone would like to start a topic on
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com as to what types of career
advice should/could be within our scope, please feel free.
* Joe: Our local ASIS&T chapter ran a few workshops where members would review
and critique student's resumés. Even if there aren't groups doing these
things, it's still worth going to whatever professional groups there
might be in your area to do some networking. (and at my local branch,
many of the library assistants were interns / volunteers when they were
in high school ... it might be a little late to go that route, though)
* Alice Rees: Very sorry for making an off-topic sort of post. Will go have a look at
the workplace one.


