---
title: "Holiday decorations in a public library"
layout: default
---
Holiday decorations in a public library
=====================
Historically our public library has avoided holiday decorations, but
every year staff and members of the public ask about the bah-humbug
attitude, reluctantly accepting the explanation that we are avoiding
displays that might be perceived as religious since we are a government
agency (even though other government agencies often have trees in their
lobbies). I would like to create defensible guidelines for decorations
that will allow some festivity without creating offense, and am
interested in what policies other libraries have written that work.

Mary Jo Finch

### Comments ###
* Joe: Whatever you do, sooner or later the [Pastafarians will find
you](http://www.usatoday.com/USCP/PNI/NEWS/2011-12-17-bcholiday\_ST\_U.htm)


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Well, one jiujitsu move might be asking several different faith
communities (or whatever interfaith council might exist) in your area to
come together to make suggestions for such a policy. How well this will
work obviously depends on the level of faith diversity in your
community!

Failing that, New Year's is secular enough not to excite comment, and
plenty festive. Thanksgiving, for all its sketchy historical
construction, is a civic holiday.

What I'd be wickedly tempted to do is cycle through a year of
multicultural holidays, from Kwanzaa to Ramadan to Diwali to Rosh
Hashanah and beyond. Kick out the jams and be festive -- *inclusively*
festive! And if you can bring local folk from various faiths in to help
you build and market those displays, so much the better.

### Comments ###

Answer by NEl
----------------
I recommend winter/spring decorations. Snow, polar bears and snowmen or
bunnies and flowers. Be more focused on the season rather than the
holiday in that season.

### Comments ###

Answer by jessamyn
----------------
I feel sort of strongly that public spaces need to be accessible to the
entire public which either means a blow out "let's really cover every
single holiday that people might celebrate in this season" or a more
generic winter-themed approach. There is nothing wrong with individuals
being Christmas-oriented, but it definitely sends a message if public OR
staff-only spaces in the library are just doing a generic Xmas thing. As
a non-Xmas celebrator this is important to me, less so that you have
equal time for Chanukah but that you're mindful that it's a holiday time
of the year for many different types of people.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jeni
----------------
I think holiday decorations tied in with book choices about those
holidays is very attractive. It's also a good way to double-check that
you do own books on holidays other than Christian and Jewish!

### Comments ###

