---
title : Business sponsorships for a public library
---
Business sponsorships for a public library
=====================
Our Friends Group is interested in pursuing business sponsorships, and I
see a need for a policy that sets guidelines for this. Concerns that
come to mind:

-   Should sponsorship be one-time, annual, or event-based?
-   What constraints are necessary for advertising the sponsorship? Can
    we promise a logo on the library website or does it need to go on
    the Friends' website? Can we limit promised advertising to a logo
    only?
-   What about sponsorships from competing companies? Do we promise a
    coffee shop that we won't take sponsorship from another coffee shop?
-   What if a politically (or otherwise) controversial business wishes
    to sponsor?

Probably there are other concerns I have not even considered. Can you
share a policy that works for your library?

Mary Jo Finch

### Comments ###


Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Our library has benefited from sponsorships in the past, although these
have been limited to things such as buildings, equipment, indvidual
books, etc. Another area to be aware of is if an item is not longer
required, does it still need to be retained regardless and the
associated cost implications.

Sponsorship is usually individually tailored and this can address
responsibilities such as logos, advertising, plaques, exclusiveness,
etc. A sunset clause should also apply, so that both sides understand
both the beginning and end date of obligations. If a logo is used, you
should check your incorporation articles to see if/where it can be used,
and give consideration whether the logo was a permanent or temporary
fixture and the costs involved in amending this.

Legal agreements are best when negiotating with sponsors, and provide
clear lines of understanding about obligations.

Our library also allows individuals to 'sponsor a book' which allows
sponsors to be matched to new acquisitions, which taps into the
grassroots level of support. To avoid confusion, a policy should be
aimed at both larger and small sponsorship levels.

### Comments ###
* Joe: How does the 'sponsor a book' work? I can think of a time when someone
donated a massive set of Scientology books, still in shrink wrap ... we
suspect they expected they would be added to the collection, but they
were handed off to the Friends for the book sale. (and they were like
romance novels -- we couldn't give 'em away)
* Deborah Mould: Sponsoring a book involves matching donor funds with an
interest/genre/author that is on our Wish List. They donate the money,
we get the book/s and they get the option of a naming their name
mentioned in the front of the book. A bit of a different conversation,
as we talk about meeting community needs and their stated 'wants' rather
than a donor drive collection policy, but it is a great way of raising
money for audio books and children's books.

