---
title: "Would an agreement on a centralized style for citations be practical?"
layout: default
---
Would an agreement on a centralized style for citations be practical?
=====================
Given the large number of possible styles for citations in many
different fields (APA, MLA, AP, IEEE, etc.), it's difficult for
academics and information science professionals to keep track.

It would clearly be beneficial to standardize some of these styles
between fields (while leaving old citations as-is to save efforts).
Would this be practical, given the different uses of information in each
of these academic disciplines?

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">citations</li><li class="tag">standards</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: The problem that I see is that any unified or harmonized standard will
itself be a citation standard. If the existence of N standards is a
problem, the existence of N+1 standards is unlikely to be a solution to
that problem.
* jonsca: @BenOstrowsky A good point. I had envisioned a scenario where the older
methods would be considered "legacy" and no longer employed.
* ksclarke: "The nice thing about standards is that you have so many to choose
from." -- Andrew S. Tanenbaum (Computer Networks, 2nd ed., p. 254) ...
Somewhat snarky, I know. :-)
* John Flatness: http://xkcd.com/927/


Answer by Joe
----------------
It would be beneficial, but there's too many different groups who all
think they know what the right way is to do things, and as it works for
them, they have no reason to change.

Maybe I'm a bit cynical, as I work in science archives, and we're
actually trying to get standards considered for data & software citation
... but the way that you subset data varies by discipline (it's not as
simple as page numbers), so we're likely going to end up with many
incompatable citation standards.

I would suggest that you use [citation management
software](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reference_management_software),
and if you want people to cite your work, offer the necessary metadata
in [BibTeX](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BibTeX). You can then emit your
list of references in whatever format a particular journal needs.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Good suggestion, I was just thinking more in the hypothetical.
* Trevor Owens: In the long run, I think attempts to get unique and universal
identifiers, like DOIs, in all citation formats are going to make the
presentation text largely irrelevant. Best bet is to double down on
getting these unique identifiers further adopted.
* phette23: The thing is, because all of these professional organizations think
they're special & know the one true way to document sources, third-party
reference management solutions have to step in & unify things since one
source can be cited in numerous ways. Zotero's [Citation Style
Language](http://citationstyles.org/) is one example but there are
others. I wish those types of standards would overtake all the journals
& associations with their own quirky citation styles.

Answer by Jakob
----------------
The [Citation Style Language](http://citationstyles.org/) (CSL) is one
approach to standardize citation styles by formal description of these
styles. This allows to support zillions of citation styles as citations
can automatically be created in any style that has been formally
defined. In a nutshell, CSL works as illustrated below:

                            citation style 
                            (defined in CSL)
                                   |
                                   v
     bibliographic data  ---> CSL processor ---> citation
    (in CSL input format)                        (in the specific style)

Up to now there are [more than 2000 citation
styles](http://zotero.org/styles) defined in CSL. CSL can be compared to
BibTeX without the quirks that BibTeX derived from TeX.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jenn Riley
----------------
Rather than answering your question directly, I'll propose an
alternative tactic. As we see with library metadata inching towards
semantic web technologies, we're realizing that pre-agreement on
standards and formatting among different communities is indeed
\*IM\*practical. The lesson therefore is that our investment in the
standards might be better made in technologies that allow the domain
differences to effectively work together. Rather than spend lots of time
defining the "right" way, spend that time understanding how several
fit-for-purpose ways can interoperate. I'd like to think that same
principle would apply to citation styles.

### Comments ###

