---
title: "What is the copyright regulation about how much portion of a book may be copied or scanned?"
layout: default
---
What is the copyright regulation about how much portion of a book may be copied or scanned?
=====================
What is the general copyright regulation about how much portion of a
book may be copied or scanned, when the book is borrowed from a library,
for example, a university library by its graduate students?

Does the regulation apply just once per loan, or to the total pages for
all loans of the same book?

Thanks!

PS: I am asking about the case in U.S..

Tim

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">copyright</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: Copyright lending laws will vary by country, and should be easily
seatchable if you search for "copyright laws in [COUNTRY]". Even
choosing one country to focus on leaves this a very broad question,
which is not a good fit here. Is there something specific you wanted to
know about US Copyright Laws as they pertain to libraries?
* Tim: @AshleyNunn: As in my post, specific regarding copy or scan of books
borrowed from a library, for example, a university library by its
graduate students?


Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
The answer varies dependent upon the country. In Australia, it would be
10% of the entire book; no matter if you borrow it 10 times or just the
once.

The only exception I can think of is if you were doing this for a person
with a disability.

### Comments ###
* Tim: Thanks! (1) I am asking about the case in U.S.. (2) In Australia, " it
would be 10% of the entire book; no matter if you borrow it 10 times or
just the once." Do you mean 10% is the total pages that can be copied or
scanned by the same single person over all the loans?

Answer by dsalo
----------------
You're going to hate this answer, but it's the true one: *there is no
bright-line guideline.* US copyright law just doesn't work that way.

Section 108 of the Copyright Act grants libraries certain "superpowers"
with respect to copying books for patrons when (and ONLY when) those
works are not otherwise available for purchase at a reasonable cost.
Additional Section 108 leeway is available with respect to journal
articles. See the [Section 108
Spinner](http://www.librarycopyright.net/resources/spinner/) for
additional information.

Section 108 does not, however, cover individuals who copy library
materials. While libraries are generally not required to police their
photocopiers and scanners as long as they post boilerplate information
about copyright near them, that doesn't mean that "I copied it in the
library!" is a valid defense for a patron against infringement, because
it isn't.

Such patrons, if accused of infringement, might have fair use as an
affirmative defense; that would be a matter for the courts.

### Comments ###

