---
title: "Are there benefits to having digital and physical collections management duties in one position?"
layout: default
---
Are there benefits to having digital and physical collections management duties in one position?
=====================
What are the benefits of having both digital and physical collections
management duties handled by one position or person rather than
separating them into distinct responsibilities? I'm specifically
interested in benefits to the organization beyond personnel cost
savings.

MGallinger

### Comments ###


Answer by waingram
----------------
The benefit that most stands out to me is that this type of
organizational methodology emphasizes the similarities between
traditional (physical) and digital collections management.

So often in digital librarianship, folks tend to act like they have
forgotten everything they know about (for example) how to manage
collections when the content is digital. But nearly all the same rules
and best practices will apply to digital vs. physical collections.
Obviously, there are exceptions. But my point is that the sooner we stop
talking about traditional vs. digital librarianship, and just focus on
*big-L* Librarianship, the better we will be.

Related thought: it may be tempting to assign digital library
tasks/duties to a tech-savvy employee even though they may be lacking in
library skills. This can be a mistake, as it is often the case that a
good librarian can learn enough of the technology to do her job. But the
opposite is seldom true. It is usually much harder to teach a
non-librarian techie the skills necessary to do an equally-good job. The
domain knowledge of librarianship required to do the job nearly always
outweighs the needed technical abilities.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Digital is just another format. If you must divide collection
responsibilities across more than one position, it makes more sense to
divide it by interest area rather than format. If you divide by format,
the digital person has to have the same knowledge about upcoming
publishing releases, awards, etc as the physical collection manager -
two people are studying the same publishing journals.

Dividing by content area (adult vs children's, fiction vs nonfiction,
science vs liberal arts, etc) allows for subject specialization which
will contribute to a stronger collection. If one person is ordering all
the adult fiction, for example, they will make sure they have new titles
in the formats that are most likely to be used, and if a title is
unavailable in digital, they will know to order more in other formats.

### Comments ###

