---
title : Using the Aleph update-doc X-Service
---
Using the Aleph update-doc X-Service
=====================
In Aleph v20, I want to use the update-doc X-Service. I have a script
set up to do this:

1.  HTTP GET xml from `/X?op=find-doc&base=BASE&doc_num=XXXXXXXXX`
2.  edit the xml
3.  HTTP POST the edited xml back to
    `/X?op=update-doc&base=BASE&doc_num=XXXXXXXXX&doc_action=UPDATE&user_name=USER&user_password=PASS&xml_full_req=EDITED_XML`

Aleph always responds with:

    <update-doc>
    <session-id>SOME SESSION ID</session-id>
    </update-doc>

i.e., no error messages, but no success message, either. It does the
same thing when I send an invalid `doc_action` parameter. Is UPDATE an
invalid `doc_action` parameter?

Has anyone made the update-doc service work?

PS I don't control (or know much about) the Aleph server configuration.

EDIT: The x-service user did not have sufficient privileges in the Aleph
cataloging module. Once that was fixed by our Aleph server admin, the
steps above worked properly (find-doc, edit the response, POST the
edited response back to update-doc)

Brad

### Comments ###


Answer by kardeiz
----------------
The X-Server for DigiTool--which seems to be very similar to
Aleph's--requires that a session ID string be provided for some queries
("The session-id must be included in every subsequent query string...").

Have you tried logging in with the X-Server "login" operation (something
like `http://HOST/X?op=login&USER_NAME=Name&USER_PASSWORD=Password`),
collecting the returned session-id, and including it as a parameter with
your HTTP post (e.g., `...&SESSION_ID=whatever`)?

Alternatively, perhaps there is a problem with your XML--are you sending
the XML document as a URL parameter? If so, is it properly encoded?

Also, note that you can view some documentation for the X-Server at
`http://HOST/X?op=explain`.

### Comments ###
* Brad: Thanks for the tips. I have tried adding the current session-id in the
request; the behaviour is the same. The body of the XML is posted in the
xml\_full\_req argument, and I'm certain it's properly encoded. (well,
as certain as I can be -- I use the same process to encode the input XML
for the similar update-bor X-Service, and I'm using that one to
successfully edit patron records).
* kardeiz: I just skimmed over the Aleph X-Server docs for "update-doc", and it
looks like \`BASE\` is not a supported parameter key for the
"update-doc" action. It looks like \`LIBRARY\` is used instead
(presumably with the same five character base value). Maybe try changing
\`/X?op=update-doc&base=BASE&doc\_num=XXXXXXXXX&doc\_action=UPDATE&user\_name=USER&user\_password=PASS&xml\_full\_req=EDITED\_XML\`
to
\`/X?op=update-doc&library=BASE&doc\_num=XXXXXXXXX&doc\_action=UPDATE&user\_name=USER&user\_password=PASS&xml\_full\_req=EDITED\_XML\`
* Brad: I've tried both, and omitting it altogether. The correct form is
'library', but making it correct doesn't solve my problem. Thanks again.

Answer by user869
----------------
I just read somewhere that this behaviour could also occur when you do
not have sufficient rights.

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: Any idea where you read this? What do you mean by sufficient rights?

