---
title: "How are academic libraries addressing the student textbook crisis?"
layout: default
---
How are academic libraries addressing the student textbook crisis?
=====================
Has anyone developed a successful model for making student textbooks
available in the library, either on reserve or via e-book access?

Lisa Wallis

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Could you elaborate a bit more on the nature of the crisis for those not
steeped in the academic world? As an outsider, all I know is that the
prices are nearing \$200. Is that what you are referring to, or is there
a shortage?
* Ashley Nunn: Where is this crisis taking place? Globally? Just the US? Canada?
Somewhere else entirely? Some more detail would really help this
question out, otherwise it is likely to be closed, as in the current
state it is hard to tell what sort of answer to give, as this is a very
broad question that could have many different answers depending on
context.
* dsalo: K-12 or college/university?


Answer by David Lewis
----------------
If you want to know about the crisis a good source of information is the
Make Textbooks Affordable project at:
[http://www.studentpirgs.org/campaigns/sp/make-textbooks-affordable](http://www.studentpirgs.org/campaigns/sp/make-textbooks-affordable)

One interesting approach is that of Indiana University where the
university contracts with publishers for digital textbooks with a print
option, all students in a class pay a course fee, and cost are well
below the list price. For information see:
[http://etexts.iu.edu](http://etexts.iu.edu)

### Comments ###

Answer by wdenton
----------------
At my university library we don't have an answer. Textbooks usually go
on reserve, but we don't always buy them. They're expensive, they get
replaced with a new edition in a couple of years ... and they get
stolen. The best advice we can give students is to buy it at the
bookstore, where there are some cost-saving measures in place, such as
some kind of bonus-money-back program, and a buy-back plan, that will
help reduce the cost a bit.

There's certainly no way we can provide consistent reliable access to
all of their textbooks to all the students.

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
This library has a policy of not purchasing textbooks. (We choose to
spend our limited library budget on materials not available in the
bookstore.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Julie Obst
----------------
I work at two academic libraries, full-time at a large community college
library and part-time at a small private university library. Our policy
at the large library is to put textbooks on reserve at instructor
request, but we do not purchase textbooks whatsoever and consider them
consumables. The reserve textbooks are used heavily.

At the small private library, there is a robust system in place for
textbooks each semester. At the beginning of the term, a librarian
requests a textbook list from the book store and checks with instructors
as to whether or not they would like to donate a textbook to the library
for the semester. The textbook does not become part of our collection,
and is housed in its own section along with a binder for students to use
to find their book. The binder contains course name and number,
instructor name, book title, and edition. At the beginning of each term,
students depend on library staff to help them find these books and hear
about the books through word of mouth. We have about 150 books on this
unofficial reserve system and haven't lost a book yet, though a few
chapters from a unbound edition did go missing. The bookstore has also
contributed editions.

The success of this project has been thanks to willing faculty and great
communication.

### Comments ###

