---
title : What should go into a decision about how many copies of digital objects libraries should keep for digital preservation
---
What should go into a decision about how many copies of digital objects libraries should keep for digital preservation
=====================
Is there a right answer for how many copies one should be keeping of
digital content an organization is keeping? Given the amount of issues
involved the answer is likely no. Clearly only one copy is a significant
liability, where two is better, three is nice in that you now can break
a tie if you end up with one of the copies failing a fixity check.

At some point you get diminishing returns for having more copies. So the
question at hand is what factors should go into making a decision about
how many copies an organization should be keeping?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
Value of the data and resources available should drive some of this. Set
a baseline for ordinary items, and understand which items are
exceptional and need more protection.

For my digital library (scientific data for a research lab) I take a
full backup every ninety days and store it offsite This is in addition
to daily incrementals, and these are "forever" backups--the tapes are
never recycled. You never know when bitrot sets in; having regular
copies to refer to gives you a fighting chance to restore to a known
good state.

### Comments ###

Answer by AaronC
----------------
The answer is Four. Original, local backup, offsite backup, offline
backup.

Hah, if only it were that easy. But, that is the approach we've taken. I
tend to think of it as layers of infrastructure and not copies. We put
one file in one directory and it is replicated across our entire system.
There are four copies, but really its just one object sitting in our
digital preservation environment.

### Comments ###

