---
title: "Why should university undergraduates care about open access?"
layout: default
---
Why should university undergraduates care about open access?
=====================
[Open Access Week](http://www.openaccessweek.org/) will be happening 22
- 28 October. At the university where I work librarians are planning a
variety of events.

We want to do something for undergraduates, to tell them about open
access, what it is, how it works, why it's important, what it means to
them ... but in previous OA Week chats with undergrads their main
concern was whether it would mean they could have free textbooks. Which
in a way it does, but not in a way that's going to help them this year
or next.

Why should undergraduates care about open access? Why should a
second-year student who's busy with classes, has some expensive
textbooks, and has a part-time job and some debt, care about OA? I am
curious to know what methods people have found that speak well to this
audience about open access.

wdenton

### Comments ###
* Joe: Are you looking for reasons why they should care they exist, or reasons
why one might choose to publish in an OA journal vs. a traditional
journal, or are you trying to get them to otherwise support the OA
journals (eg, helping to peer review?).
* wdenton: Why they should care they exist, and why they might care about them for
possible future academic work. Undergraduates won't be publishing or
reviewing for them.


Answer by Nancy
----------------
Here's one I've found pretty compelling for students who are actually
into their studies, and/or who expect to work in fields where access to
research matters:

When you graduate, you will no longer have access to the online
subscription journals. Open access research will be available to you no
matter what!

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
An indirect answer: Check [Right to
Research](http://righttoresearch.org/) for swag and arguments aimed
specifically at undergraduates.

### Comments ###
* wdenton: This is new to me ... thanks.
* Ashley Nunn: Any chance you could summarize some of the arguments here? Link only
answers risk link rot, and also it makes it easier for the OP to see
answers here without having to sift through information elsewhere.

