---
title: "What studies quantify the full cost of library or archive closure? What are the full costs?"
layout: default
---
What studies quantify the full cost of library or archive closure? What are the full costs?
=====================
There are costs associated with the closure of major libraries or
archives. We often hear cost savings associated with a "budget cut"
touted, but there are costs associated with closure, too.

Many costs of closure would extend beyond an common budgetary item. For
example, the loss of cultural tourism revenues is an example of a
reasonably quantifiable economic loss associated with a closure. Other,
more intangible costs associated with closure would require quantifying
the loss of transparency, access, etc.

-   What are the full costs associated with the closure of a major
    library or archive?
-   On a global level, what modern studies exist that quantify the "all
    in" cost of such closures?


GeneJ

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">archives</li><li class="tag">public-services</li><li class="tag">budgets</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Jeni
----------------
This article is a good starting point -
[http://friendsofelmhurstlibrary.blogspot.com/2009/05/high-cost-of-closing-or-limiting.html](http://friendsofelmhurstlibrary.blogspot.com/2009/05/high-cost-of-closing-or-limiting.html).
Per excellent suggestion, examples from post: -The average American pays
\$20 a year in taxes to support public libraries and can save that much
by borrowing instead of buying just one or two books. A book that is
loaned ten times cuts not only cost but paper use per read by a factor
of ten.” from Seven-Plus Wonders of Sustainability by Donella H.
Meadows... -give at-risk kids a safe place like the low cost public
library where they can play computer video games rather than being on
the street dealing or taking drugs and ending up in a high-cost public
facility like city jails or juvenile detention?... -many who cannot
afford a computer at home come to the library to have access to job and
educational resources... -finding books on home repairs and improvemen
so properties continue to be kept up at a time when many can no longer
afford to pay for home services like plumbing, minor repairs, cosmetic
improvements, or other repairs that do not require a lot of skill to
master and can be easily learned from a book... -unoccupied public
buildings like libraries a prime target for vandalism and other
crimes...The costs will not be in dollars and cents. It will greatly
impact the morale and well-being of the community."

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: Any chance you can summarize some of the information in the article that
helps answer the question?

