---
title: "What is the most effective way of sorting large, unsorted electronic archive collections to enable cataloguing?"
layout: default
---
What is the most effective way of sorting large, unsorted electronic archive collections to enable cataloguing?
=====================
We have a number of large, unsorted electronic archive collections that
have very little descriptive metadata. We have very little knowledge
about the content of the collections and there is no original order. We
would be interested in hearing recommendations for the best way of going
about sorting collections to enable us to catalogue them to archival
standards and make them accessible to users. Are there any tools we
could use to help automate this work? We would also be interested in
hearing people's experiences of cataloguing electronic archive
collections using traditional standards - e.g ISAD(G)

Becky

### Comments ###
* Joe: Can you say anything about the source of the collection? Eg, how you'd
deal with a dump from a random faculty member's computer is going to be
different than how you might deal with a more homogeneous set that was
collected for a specific purpose. (eg, a bunch of images; different
types of media but all dealing with a given subject; etc.)


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Tools like the [Duke Data
Accessioner](http://library.duke.edu/uarchives/about/tools/data-accessioner.html)
and [Archivematica](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Main_Page)
contain accessioning, visualization, deduping, and similar utilities
useful for getting a handle on a large, confused, heterogeneous
collection.

### Comments ###

