---
title : What are some effective ways to index a vertical file?
---
What are some effective ways to index a vertical file?
=====================
The vertical file appears to be something that every library has, but
you don't learn much about in library school.

What are some effective ways to organize this information, decide what
is relevant (particularly when you are new to a community), and index it
to facilitate location of the information?

Should the vertical file materials be in the catalog?

Jessie Pate

### Comments ###


Answer by Jeni
----------------
A long time ago we learned a lot about vertical files in library school.
We organized the information alphabetically in folders. Once a year we
went through and weeded the folders. What I found as a school librarian
in later years was that what is relevant is information not found on the
Internet - especially local history and local information. I would add
it to the catalog or it will be rarely used.

### Comments ###
* Gem: I agree that ideally this info should be added to the catalog, in brief
record format if nothing else. When I worked reference our vertical
files were almost never used because the self-help patrons never knew
they existed.
* Jane Nearing: We collect mostly local information that is 'not found anywhere else.'
We collect usage by jotting the use date on the folders.
* Gene Golovchinsky: As a patron, I think it is important to have this kind of information be
discoverable online. You can't use it if you don't know it's there, and
it isn't always convenient to ask the librarian directly.

