---
title: "Are there inherent benefits to using open source software to manage content for digital preservation?"
layout: default
---
Are there inherent benefits to using open source software to manage content for digital preservation?
=====================
Does the open and transparent nature of open source software translate
into an inherent benefit for digital preservation? It strikes me that
some of the kinds of factors noted in the [Sustainability of Digital
Formats](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/sustain/sustain.shtml)
points can be more broadly applied to the stack of software that one
uses to manage copies for digital preservation. It strikes me that ideas
from the sustainability of formats, like Disclosure, Transparency,
Self-documentation, and External dependencies, are all potential
inherent benefits to digital preservation work.

So, do you think there is an inherent benefit? Or, does the fact that
many of these systems act as appliances mean that it doesn't really
matter? Or, do you think there are particular kinds of open source
software (say some tool you are using to normalize a set of files, or
some platform you are using to manage content and metadata itself) where
this matters, and other kinds of software where it would be irrelevant
if it was or wasn't open source.

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">software</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Chris Adams
----------------
Yes. The primary argument for me is the combination of two facts: as
with other data software is brittle, requiring regular maintenance, and
libraries are not generally major power brokers in the commercial
software field.

Software companies have a strong incentive to build applications for as
wide a market as possible, leaving libraries with very limited buying
power, and as with other areas of preservation, decisions are made based
on current market realities and whims. We've seen this with systems like
Apple's QuickTime which had very complex functionality (e.g. embedded
Flash & other rich, programable content) added and later removed after
falling into disfavor — certainly the right business decision and
definitely a security benefit but completely stranding the small number
of people with a significant investment in content which actually used
those features.

At the other end of the market, a small vendor may go out of business or
have key personnel retire, leaving all of their uss stranded with no
option other than hoping an alternative is available and that the
migration path is not too rocky.

Open source software helps with several of these challenges:

1.  In the simplest case, it means that it's impossible for a vendor to
    simply disappear. It might not be cheap but at least you have the
    option of hiring a software developer to maintain or improve an open
    source application.

    Corollary: you really want to make sure that you actually save a
    copy of the source for anything you use if the current maintainer
    starts to seem shaky.

2.  There's frequently a huge difference between a format as specified
    and as practiced. Using an entirely open-source stack now means that
    you have a known reference implementation from the beginning rather
    than finding out later that your data really only works well with
    one particular implementation. If you are forced to migrate later,
    it can be extremely helpful to have a known working codebase for
    reference.

    On a related, open source software now almost always implies an open
    version control system which makes it much easier to determine where
    and how something stopped working. There's one other interesting
    aspect: the dominance of [distributed version control
    systems](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_version_control_system)
    in the open source world is particularly powerful because it breaks
    the assumption of a single privileged maintainer, making it safer
    for your organization to maintain local customizations against
    upstream releases. Handling local customization gracefully
    traditionally has been a weak point for commercial software vendors
    for various reasons but it's integral to working in the open source
    world.

3.  There's a significant related advantage: open source software is
    usually considerably cheaper and you have cost saving options if
    you're not paying support but can perform some work in house – this
    is a benefit to the extent that it either frees budget for more dire
    preservation work and avoids unpleasant surprises down the road.

All of these generally shift as a function of how close they are to your
critical path: if you need a particular viewer for a file format, it's
far more important than, say, a search engine on your storage system
since the latter operates independently and can be swapped out far more
easily.

This strongly rewards keeping your architecture simple and standard
because you lower the chances that you'll need to start supporting
something which has fallen out of popularity within the community. For
example, storing items in a database is far riskier than storing the
same content on a filesystem simply because it introduces a massive
chunk of complex, possibly expensive, software which has to work simply
so you can retrieve a file and the lack of a standard interface would
mean that you need to develop or pay for support in anything which needs
to access the data.

### Comments ###

Answer by Nicolas Raoul
----------------
I totally agree with Chris Adams, and just want to add one thing:

Open Source software usually have better **interoperability**.\
 There are a few reasons for that:

**No secrecy**: For instance, Microsoft has long been reluctant to
disclosing what the structure of their Office files' data/metadata,
whereas OpenOffice has always published the specification of their
formats. Almost all open source software is the work of a community, and
this community needs all specifications to be open, otherwise it can not
work. There is no secret, whereas non-open-source companies usually have
secrets that they use as a strategic advantage.

**Preference for [Open
standards](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_standard)**: When an open
source software needs to store something or communicate over a network,
it will use an open standard/protocol if one is available. Users of
other software using the same standard can easily test and report
incompatibities.

**Number of protocols supported**: Open source software tend to support
more protocols/formats that their counterparts. For instance: Our
company needed to import data from a specific rare format. The software
did not support it, so we paid some company to implement it, and now it
is part of the software. That would not happen with non-open-source
software.

### Comments ###

Answer by Euan
----------------
If you have specified your requirements clearly and thoroughly enough
then it shouldn't matter whether the solution you use is open-source or
not. For example, if you specify that any files created by the software
you want to use must be in open formats and have an open-source
rendering application available, then you shouldn't have too many
problems with making sure you can access files created by that software
in the future.

On the other hand, it is very difficult to be sure that you have
specified your requirements sufficiently well to anticipate all possible
issues. So it might be advantageous to make sure you have a solution
with a significant degree of flexibility, which will often be an open
source solution.

### Comments ###

Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
There is one more benefit of most open source software compared to
several commercial/proprietary software packages these days, with
regards to ensuring continued and uninterrupted access to content.
**Mandatory software activation**, *particularly* but not exclusively
when taken in combination with proprietary file formats. This is being
used by more and more large software companies, and means that even if
you have a valid license, have the software media, hardware on which to
run it etc., *if the vendor decides to no longer support your particular
version, you may very well be out of luck;* you *cannot* install and use
it independent of the software vendor.

Free/open source software can sometimes be a bit rough around the edges;
it might lack the polished two-click installer; and the user interface
might not be as well designed as that of a commercial software product.
But you can document and create procedures around that, and the same
version will still work, and work the same way, two, five, ten or even
twenty years from now, assuming that you have a hardware and software
environment within which it can run. It can be installed, reinstalled
and re-reinstalled as many times as needed on as much new hardware as is
needed. And should it become necessary, the environment (hardware and
software) can often be emulated, by way of emulation, virtualization or
API translation; all three are viable technologies in varying
situations. All that completely independently of the person or company
who originally wrote the software.

To gain the full value from this, however, you have to consider the
entire software stack at least from the operating system on up. A good
first step for simulating something like this could be to try to install
a usable copy of the software on a new computer that has no Internet
connection and without contacting the software vendors in any way. If
you can do that, and not end up with an installation that stops working
after a short while, then you're probably okay.

### Comments ###

Answer by gmcgath
----------------
"Inherent" may be too strong a word. Open source provides the benefits
which others have mentioned. Commercial software provides a commitment
by a company that needs to honor it to keep attracting customers, while
people doing open source can drift away. On the other hand, commercial
companies can also lose interest in their product and hope that
technology lock-in gets customers to keep renewing their licenses.

You have to look at all the factors, the most important of which is the
quality of the software regardless of where it comes from.

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: Open source software can be made by "a company that needs to honor it to
keep attracting customers".
[MySQL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL\#History) and Linux are
likely prime examples. While much open source software is written by
enthusiasts in their free time, it definitely does not automatically
follow that it doesn't have the backing of a corporate entity. Plus, if
the software is relatively obscure and the company that makes it goes
bankrupt, who picks up the pieces? With open source, you have the choice
of hiring someone yourself to do it. Not cheap, but perfectly doable.

