---
title: "Public computer setup"
layout: default
---
Public computer setup
=====================
We have two small libraries, and each has about 12 public computers
which are networked but running off their individual hard drives. We are
thinking about migrating our public computer infrastructure to VDI
(Virtual Desktop Infrastructure - "thin clients"). The public computers
would no longer have their own hard drive (no more hard drive failures,
updates all happen at the server level). We are intending to build the
VDI on Microsoft Hyper-V technology.

-   Is this feasible - have you tried this or know of anyone who has?

-   Will users suffer a speed degradation when streaming videos or\
     playing games?

-   Are there other issues we should be concerned about?


Mary Jo Finch

### Comments ###


Answer by eby
----------------
Speed should not be an issue as long as you have enough memory and cpu
to support the number of users you usually have. Flash and other video
can be resource intensive on the server depending on how you are
virtualizing. Another speed issue is how the two libraries are
networked. If you have limited bandwidth between the two branches such
as a T1 then you'd likely want a server at each of the libraries so that
connections are local within the library.

Secondly you'll want to think about how your sessions are cleared out
between patrons. I'm not sure how or if you are doing it currently but
the method may not work virtualized. I'm not overly familiar with
Hyper-V so this may be mute. On this vein is how long it takes for the
virtual session or thin client to boot/reimage or generally become
available for use. I've seen some poorly constructed systems (full or
thin client) in some academic libraries that take 5 minutes to become
usable due to how they boot and image.

One thing that has worked well for us with thin clients is mounting them
with a VESA mount out of reach from patrons and then mounting a FrontX
modular port onto the desk instead. While the case is meant to go into a
3.5in bay in a computer we find it looked fine screwed under our desks.
This means patrons are actively using a \$10 part which is fairly sturdy
and cheap to replace, rather than a direct port on a thin client that
would mean eventually replacing a thin client. In the 4ish years we've
had 100+ thin clients out we've only had to replace two due to them
frying (power here is not good and surge protectors can only do so
much).

Here is the frontX site:
[http://www.frontx.com/](http://www.frontx.com/)

### Comments ###

