---
title: "How do I combine a folder of .MRC files into one .MRC using the command line or MARCEDIT?"
layout: default
---
How do I combine a folder of .MRC files into one .MRC using the command line or MARCEDIT?
=====================
I need to deliver a set of MARC files to a librarian and know that the
librarian would rather receive one `.MRC` file with all records included
rather than a zipped folder of `.mrc` files.

I know there is a way to bundle the records together because a colleague
has done it, but I can't figure out how to do this myself.

Rachel

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">marc</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Jon Gorman
----------------
I can think of a couple of possible solutions, depending on how
frequently you need to do it and your comfort with different tools.

First, MarcEdit is a wonderful tool for manipulating MARC files:
[http://people.oregonstate.edu/\~reeset/marcedit/html/index.php](http://people.oregonstate.edu/~reeset/marcedit/html/index.php).
The MARC Tools tab/window has options for combining/breaking MARC files.
I think the MARC Join utility will do what you want.

If you're comfortable on the command-line, yaz-marcdump tool that comes
with yaz from index data (http://www.indexdata.com/yaz) has several
options for combining and translating MARC records.

I think that there's only a record separator at the end of a record and
no file character (and the record character is always present).

Just a warning, there's some possible weirdness with some more general
purpose tools like cat that are used to join files which could introduce
extra new-lines. I would use one of the tools above instead of just cat.

To clarify, most versions of cat will add a newline between text files,
but not binary files. So if you want, try using cat and use a hex-editor
to see if extra new-lines are added. Some systems will ignore junk
between MARC records, some won't.

### Comments ###
* Rachel: Thank you, Jon! I used MarcEdit with success, but will explore the
yaz-marcdump tool for future projects. I appreciate your thoughtful
answer!

