---
title : What benefits does a library gain by having its own mobile phone app?
---
What benefits does a library gain by having its own mobile phone app?
=====================
Many libraries have their own app for Android/iOS/etc. I wonder what
benefits they see. Is it little more than promotional in nature or does
it provide genuine functionality? And if the latter, is it more for the
user-facing tasks (e.g. placing holds on books), or is it more for
improving management of the library (by having more information about
how the library is being used)?

I understand this may vary based on the individual app but one would
think that most of these apps have a great number of features in common.
Things like locations, hours, phone numbers, calendars, catalogue
searches, placing holds, etc, etc should be par for the course where
these apps are concerned.

Kode

### Comments ###
* Jakob: If there was a public standard to access patron information, one could
create an independent mobile library app, which users could add multiple
library accounts to. We [just
designed](http://jakoblog.de/2012/05/29/first-draft-of-patrons-account-information-api-paia/)
such an API especially to facilitate creation of a mobile library app.


Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
I think about someone asking this same question 10-15 years ago about
whether a library needs a website. Now you'd laugh. Of course. Patrons
need to look up hours, titles, reserve books, etc. How could there not
be a website.

Apps are starting to be the same thing. People want to be able to use
"native clients" to do things whether it is order takeout or check the
movie listings. While I don't think library apps are common yet, I do
think they are the future.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Hm, such a negatively-phrased question.

Considerable debate exists in developer communities about the benefits
of apps over well-designed mobile websites. Reasons to lean toward an
app include:

-   harder for a mobile user to forget about, since it takes up screen
    space on the device in a way a website doesn't
-   easier to launch (consider tapping an icon versus typing a URL)
-   takes advantage of device APIs, features, and affordances that a
    mobile website can't (since a mobile website must be at least
    minimally cross-platform)
-   is often faster and more reliable than a mobile website can be given
    network latency and connection issues
-   teaches developers how to make apps! how else will they learn?

Current consensus as best I can tell is that a mobile-friendly website
(whether mobile-specific or created via responsive design techniques) is
probably the right place to start.

### Comments ###
* phette23: ...and I must have been writing my long-winded version of the above
while you wrote this. I completely agree.
* dsalo: happy to upvote yours! ;)
* Brian Herzog: @dsalo on our mobile website, we have instructions to "add to your home
screen" a shortcut icon for the website. Not the same as an app, I know,
but just as visible: http://chelmsfordlibrary.org/mobile/addtohome.html

Answer by phette23
----------------
The advantage of a native mobile app is simply that more users on a
wider variety of devices can complete the tasks they want to accomplish
at your library. So they can check out books, search the catalog, find
out your hours, etc. all from the convenience of their mobile phone.
Many of these tasks are difficult if not impossible for mobile users on
a desktop website; mobile screens are so small & struggle with basic
navigational features (tiny link text, drop-down menus) that most would
give up rather than continue on their way.

I think the real question is: *what is the advantage of a native library
app over a mobile website*. That answer is less clear. The tasks that
both Kode and Jeanne name (locations, hours, phone numbers, calendars,
catalogue searches, placing holds, & look up hours, titles, reserve
books) do not require any special native technology. A mobile website
would suit these fine.

In general, I don't think a native app is a good choice if you're not
going to use the advantages of the native platform: are you planning to
tap into device APIs? Do you need persistent storage (hint: none of the
actions above do)? Would the app often be used offline? Does your site
use the camera? If the answer to those is no, then you're creating more
problems that solutions with an app. App's have to versioned: you'll
need *at least* an Android and an iOS one, but other OSes can always
gain market share (Windows Phone, BlackBerry, etc.) and backwards
compatibility can break with OS upgrades. A mobile website renders
across devices fine; one could, for instance, employ [jQuery
Mobile](http://jquerymobile.com/) to ensure that a site runs across [all
major devices](http://jquerymobile.com/gbs/). You also need to pay fees
to have apps listed in proprietary, closed markets like the App Store
whereas the web is open and accessible to all.

Furthermore, HTML5 is rapidly narrowing the gap between native
applications on both desktop and mobile operating systems and the
capabilities of the web. I would also argue that the skills for
developing mobile-optimized websites (generally HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript) are more common than the ones for native apps (mostly
Objective C on iOS, mostly Java on Android, though both can use WebKit
views to run apps written in web languages like the Facebook iOS app
does).

I know it's awful to say "let me answer the question you should have
asked" but I feel like the difference between apps & websites often goes
unarticulated. [A List
Apart](http://www.alistapart.com/articles/apps-vs-the-web/) has a nice
overview of the differences for those who want to look into this
further.

### Comments ###
* Joe: The only thing I can think of where a native app might be useful is that
it could tie into the device hardware -- but I don't know how much you
could do with a camera, or vibrate. (check out books by taking a picture
of the barcode? ... no idea on the vibrate thing) GPS isn't going to be
as much use indoors, and there's now geolocation in HTML5.
* Matt Stephenson: Glad you answered the unasked question, and I'll add that HTML5 does
give you persistent storage for your mobile site:
http://dev.w3.org/html5/webstorage/
* phette23: True, there's certainly a variety of web storage mechanisms available,
from the DOM storage you mention to App Cache, Web SQL, & IndexedDB, but
I'm not sure if any are mature & cross-platform enough yet. DOM storage,
for instance, is just key-value pairs so it can't match a native
relational database. Jason Casden gave [a good
overview](http://www.slideshare.net/casden/inbrowser-storage-and-me) of
browser storage at Code4Lib 2012.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
I would think it would be a great advantage to those using a smart phone
to use the library's catalog. Currently, if you don't have mobile
friendly site, users need to pinch and zoom just to interact with the
library. A mobile friendly site can alleviate this with the most
essential information quickly, hours of operation, current events,
catalog link, reference question link. An app creates an advantage since
some of it can work offline, it can more easily remember the patron
information, and it can utilize other apps on your phone, like a camera
app to scan a barcode (browsing in a bookstore, wondering if your
library has the book, find out in a snap...) It is a convenience.
However, library app vendors can vary in price and in work on your part.
I like LibraryThing for Libraries LibraryAnywhere app. It is very
inexpensive and has great functionality. It is also a great promotional
tool to have your library brand as an app on a patron's phone.

### Comments ###

Answer by andrea
----------------
the promotional aspect shouldn't be discounted or considered just a
vanity item to disdain, though obviously if the app is so buggy it
crashes phones, etc. than the promotional aspect is absolutely negated.

i think the comparison @Jeanne Boyarsky makes to library websites a
decade ago is a good one. all signs point to more and more people
accessing the internet via their smartphones and not with
more-traditional desktop computers. i don't think there's anything lost
with having a basic but stable appthat just has basic library info on
it. with thime, it will grow and on the meantime it shows to patrons
that libraries are listenng to their patrons and are moving with the
times, etc etc etc.

### Comments ###

Answer by Carson Block
----------------
Great discussion. I think a great mobile strategy requires both apps and
html right now...

One interesting, enduring thing about apps -- from a user's standpoint
they limit choice in a powerful way. They are what they are, and little
or nothing else. That's attractive to a lot of folks, including me
sometimes.

When I was with the Poudre River Public Library District, we went with a
vendor (Boopsie) to launch a cross-platform site quickly while we
investigated mobile web approaches. We found that the greatest use was
for catalog searches. We were pleasantly surprised, because Boopsie had
said that static information searches (like hours and locations) were
the most popular elsewhere.

### Comments ###

