---
title: "How to preserve old newspapers?"
layout: default
---
How to preserve old newspapers?
=====================
If someone has found old newspapers (used as insulation in their wall),
of some historical significance, what is the best way to preserve not
only the papers themselves, but the information they contain?

For the purposes of this question, assume the papers are no more than
100 years old, yellowing, but not yet falling apart completely at a
touch.

Ashley Nunn

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">preservation</li><li class="tag">special-collections</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* GeneJ: A change to your question might improve its usefulness. Really, really
old paper usually preserves well, while typical modern but still old
paper does not. Paper production changed say 1850-1880 from cotton rag
to "newsprint" (wood pulp based). The change in the base and production
processes is what makes these more modern (but still old) papers
deteriorate faster. (a) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newsprint (b)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cotton\_paper
* Ashley Nunn: I said that they were 100 years old, which would make them produced
after the change to the faster deteriorating newsprint. Is that clear or
should I edit the question to make that more explicit?
* GeneJ: Actually, it is the qualifier "at least" [100 years old] that seemed
problematic. Rag stock can survive for a long time (even centuries),
whereas newsprint has an expected lifespan of only 50 years.
* Ashley Nunn: That makes sense. Edited for clarity. :)
* Ed Summers: I'm kind of curious how you know they are of historical significance.
* Ashley Nunn: They relate to major events of the area they were found in, and were
taken to a local historical society to see if there was any value in
keeping them.


Answer by Jeni
----------------
Digitize the pages to preserve the information

### Comments ###
* GeneJ: You might improve your answer by recognizing that digitization has its
preservation limits, too. It's not uncommon for family historians to
transcribe and digitize, and then to preserve on either conservation
grade or archival grade paper. See also Wikipedia, "Acid-free paper,"
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acid-free\_paper

Answer by Mara
----------------
Digitization and posting to the Internet can make the information widely
available. Microfilm is a time-honored preservation technique. And if
it's just a few pages, photocopying onto acid-free paper is an
option--for instance, to add to a file you already have on an
institution or incident. But if you are really asking about the paper
copy itself, I'd use Wei T'O or Bookkeeper Deacidification Spray.

### Comments ###

