---
title: "Acknowledging Friends groups"
layout: default
---
Acknowledging Friends groups
=====================
Most public libraries rely on their Friends groups for fundraising,
program facilitation, hospitality, and volunteerism. It is important to
acknowledge their contributions both in the moment and then again
through an annual event or award. Our annual volunteer potluck and
Volunteer Extraordinaire Award have become tired traditions. Thank you
gifts to the Friends have historically been frowned upon by some because
they didn't raise money just to have us spend it on them. What Friends
thank-you traditions has your library found successful?

Mary Jo Finch

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">friends-groups</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Joe: Are you attempting to acknowledge the Friends individually (Mary did
...) or collectively (This bookcase provided by the Friends)?
* Mary Jo Finch: We already acknowledge individual events or contributions as they
happen. In the spring we have always had a potluck event to say thank
you in a social setting. Enthusiasm is waning for this, but to make it
disappear could be taken as a lack of gratitude. It needs to be replaced
with something that makes more sense for us. While I am seeking a "just
right for us" answer, the question will hopefully elicit answers that
are helpful for other libraries with different needs.


Answer by Jeni
----------------
A personal note to the volunteer is always most appreciated.

### Comments ###
* Mary Jo Finch: I am sure they would love it (and I would too), but I have about 300
volunteers over the course of a year here, so it would be a challenge to
complete. Maybe I can find a way to adapt this. Thanks!

Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
We have a catered dinner celebration annually for all our volunteer
groups, including our Friends. Everyone seems to enjoy meeting people
from the other groups and hearing about their efforts. A staff committee
puts in a fair amount of work to make the event fun and memorable. We
always have good representation from the Library Board, the City
Manager, Mayor, and Council members.![FOL presented the library with an
amazing statue](http://i.stack.imgur.com/b4kLF.jpg)

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
My library primarily acknowledges the Friends group with
signs/notices/plaques on the items or on the advertising for programs
that the Friends have funded. For example, book plates in books they've
paid for, signs on the copiers they paid for, signs on the computers
they did matching funds with the Gates Grant for. For events/programs,
we include a thank you blurb for any and all help on brochures, fliers &
posters.

We also give them shout-out space in our quarterly newsletter, thanking
them for various efforts, encouraging people to join, and advertising
any upcoming events for them.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
As a member of a Friends group, I was surprised at the number of Friends
that some groups have ... I'd say that we have three classes of Friends:

-   People who pay the Friends dues (\$5/yr), which for our library is
    about 100.
-   Adult volunteers, who typically come in once a week and do a large
    amount of the work (I think we're down to 7 regulars, with 3 moving
    away and a death in the last 2 years)
-   Student volunteers, who are actually managed by the library
    directly, and not the Friends. (our area has a requirement of
    volunteer hours for high school graduation; I don't know how many
    they go through in the course of a year, but they rotate through for
    the most part).

Our system as a whole has an annual event to appreciate the volunteers,
with various gifts given based on how many hours they've volunteered
(cumulative, not per year). I have no idea what the gifts are, as I've
managed to keep my hours off the books 'til a few months ago.

As I've been processing the book donations for the past \~4 years, I
don't know that I'd call it an 'thank you' specifically, but I've been
giving a perk to the other volunteers -- any of them can tell me to keep
a look out for an author or class of book (eg, Amish romance, cookbooks,
author-signed books), and I'll pull them aside whenever one gets
donated, so they can get the right of first refusal.

... as for from the head librarian ... in the two since I've been
volunteering, both have given the adult volunteers cards and small gifts
near Christmas time. The previous one would give gift cards to a
bookstore, the current one gave some upscale chocolate bars last year.

### Comments ###

