---
title: "What is a good policy for dealing with children not behaving but whose parents are with them?"
layout: default
---
What is a good policy for dealing with children not behaving but whose parents are with them?
=====================
This is similar to [What is a good policy for dealing with parents who
leave their children at the library as free daycare /
babysitting?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/631/what-is-a-good-policy-for-dealing-with-parents-who-leave-their-children-at-the-l),
but I did not see an answer to this question in any of the policies.

Jeni

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
This is one of my least favorite parts of library work! (Misbehaving
adults is probably the worst.)

We have a posted Code of Conduct in our library which we can print out
and hand to people if necessary. If a child's behavior is breaching that
code, and the child is old enough to understand, we speak directly to
the child, and try to move them from negative behavior toward more
positive behavior: "We're glad you are having fun at the library, but
throwing things can damage them and hurt other people. I see you are
wearing pink. Did you know we have a book all about pink things? Let's
go see if it is on the shelf."

If the child is too young, out of control, or not responding to our
intervention, we speak to the parent: "Excuse me. Throwing things is not
allowed in the library. If your daughter won't stop, it would probably
be best if you came back another day when she is more settled. Can I
help you get those items checked out?"

If the parent/child remains unresponsive, you may have to insist they
leave. "This behavior is in breach of our rules. You'll need to leave
now, but I hope you will come back another day and try again." Then hand
them the policy, and help them leave.

### Comments ###

