---
title: "Best practice for digitally redacting information from born-digital documents?"
layout: default
---
Best practice for digitally redacting information from born-digital documents?
=====================
In the case of spreadsheets, databases, and other lengthy content
printouts may not be practical - or the organization may be working with
a remote patron online. Other born-digital formats just aren't conducive
to printing no matter the size.

What's the recommended approach to *digitally* redacting info from
digital documents in such a way that the removed information is not
available at all in the bitstream? Most file formats do not exhibit a
one to one correspondence between bytes and displayable characters, so
my concern is with embedded metadata or data indicating previous states.

walker

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-collections</li><li class="tag">digital-archiving</li><li class="tag">privacy</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Adrian Brown
----------------
Try the [UK National Archive Redaction
toolkit](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/documents/information-management/redaction_toolkit.pdf).

A summary of their recommendations for digitally redacting:

-   **Conversion**: convert the document to a format that contains
    displayable information only, e.g. ASCII or Windows Bitmap.

-   **Roundtrip redaction**:

    > The redacted record may be required to be made available in its
    > original format, for example, to preserve complex formatting. In
    > such cases, an extension of the conversion approach may be
    > applicable. Roundtripping entails the conversion of the record to
    > another format, followed by conversion back to the original
    > format, such that the conversion process removes all evidence of
    > the redacted information. Information deletion may be carried out
    > either prior to conversion, or in the intermediary format.

    Examples given are PDF \> `.bmp` \> PDF, or in the case of
    spreadsheets, Excel \> `.csv` \> Excel.

Windows Bitmap and `.csv` are selected as the intermediary formats
because they contain no provision for storing metadata - edits made
before or in these formats should be opaque once the document hits the
third or final format.

### Comments ###

Answer by anarchivist
----------------
It depends on the motivation for redaction. Adrian's reference to the UK
National Archives' redaction toolkit is great, but in our case we've
been curious to say if there is a way we can only redact
personally-identifiable information in things like databases or textual
records.

I haven't tried it personally, but you may want to look at the [MITRE
Identification Scrubber Toolkit](http://mist-deid.sourceforge.net/),
which was originally written to redact electronic health records.

### Comments ###

Answer by Euan
----------------
The commercial service available from [Pingar](http://pingar.com/) seems
quite effective. It can automatically redact digital documents. A demo
is available [here](http://apidemo.pingar.com/Sanitize.aspx).

I am not a representative of theirs though and I recommend searching for
alternatives also, there are a few out there.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jenn Riley
----------------
The [BitCurator](http://wiki.bitcurator.net/index.php?title=Description)
toolkit includes a utility (currently
[bulk\_extractor](https://github.com/simsong/bulk_extractor/wiki/Introducing-bulk_extractor))
for automatic identification of personally-identifiable information in
documents.

Unfortunately I don't know if these tools would address your concern
about previous states of information, but there's lots of information on
the BitCurator wiki, so perhaps you'd find the answer there.

### Comments ###

