---
title: "Using "Bulk RFID" scans to reshelve books, does it work?"
layout: default
---
Using "Bulk RFID" scans to reshelve books, does it work?
=====================
Years ago, I saw a library that said it was planning to use "Bulk RFID"
scanner to assess the need to manually reshelve books on a given shelf,
and/or find misreshelved books. By "Bulk RFID" scanner, I mean that the
books are not scan one-by-one, thought the relative locations of a book
to its neighbors is known.

Does this work, and if so, why does it appear this not commonly used in
RFID enabled libraries?

blunders

### Comments ###


Answer by Ben Ostrowsky
----------------
According to Mick Fortune's [2012 survey of RFID use in libraries
worldwide](http://www.libraryrfid.co.uk/2012.html), about half of all
libraries using RFID at all also use handheld scanners for
inventory/stock management. [58% of all Australian RFID-using
libraries](http://www.libraryrfid.co.uk/stockmanagement.html) do, as do
55% in the UK and 48% in the US. The rest of the world has not yet seen
as much reason to use RFID for finding misshelved items; only 29% of
libraries elsewhere take advantage of that benefit.

So I'm not sure why it *appears ... not commonly used* from your
perspective, but this survey suggests that among RFID-using libraries,
using a handheld scanner for finding misshelved items is fairly common.

### Comments ###
* blunders: +1 @Ben Ostrowsky: Appears my question was unclear, I'm talking about
automated assessment, not book-by-book assessment. The library, who I
don't recall the name of, scanned the books as a group without physical
interaction with the book, and the whole library was scanned I believe
nightly using robots. Also believe the shelves were specially designed
to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio. Your answer is fine as is, it was
my fault for not being more clear.

Answer by KatieR
----------------
I found an article from the Chronicle of Higher Education where they
describe a smartphone app that can read a shelf of books to see that
they are shelved correctly. Is this more along the lines of what you
were asking about? It uses QR codes rather than RFID but it is still
pretty interesting.

> The app he came up with, tentatively called Shelvar, relies on special
> tags—kind of like QR codes—attached to the books’ spines. Each tag
> “exactly represents the call number” of each boonkman explains. A user
> with a current-generation smartphone or tablet computer scans the
> shelf using the app, and Shelvar indicates which books aren’t in the
> right places. Visual cues, including directional arrows, indicate
> where the misfiled book ought to go.

[http://chronicle.com/blogs/wiredcampus/shelving-made-easy-or-easier/30792](http://chronicle.com/blogs/wiredcampus/shelving-made-easy-or-easier/30792)

### Comments ###
* blunders: +1 @KatieR: Shelvar appears to "bulk scan" items, so yes, that's more of
the approach I believe I'd seen; here's a [visual of Shelvar
output/feedback](http://www.ohgizmo.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/shelvar.jpg).
Barcode might work for a given collection, but was also curious how
functionally realistic deploying bulk-RFID scans were, and if there's
semi-easy, why they don't appear to be in wide use. Thanks for posting,
and if you have any addition questions or feedback, just let me know!
* Tatjana Heuser: Interesting article and image, but from the image linked in the comment
it seems that the application would invariably fail on items with too
little spine, such as brochures, where any visual identification would
have to be stuck to the front cover.

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
As far I am concerned, this is a **hardware** question. I don't know of
any mobile hardware that can do, say, reliable, complete and nearly
instantaneous mass-perception of 5,000 unmoving items (a few shelves'
worth) from the basic RFID tags commonly used by libraries.

It isn't inconceivable, but it is a completely different problem than
the rapid serial detection of RFIDs passing through a controlled
aperture. Would be happy to see a counterexample if one exists.

Shelf order is an even more difficult problem. To detect a misshelved
item, the hardware would need to be able to triangulate the location in
3-dimensional space. All location information would be based only on
signal strength and triangulation. There isn't anything else available!

So it is hard for me to see how a "bulk scanner" would be accurate to
the fraction of an inch required to say "this two books should be
swapped". Variations in book dimensions, cover thickness, RFID location
inside the book, shelving, etc. are all greater than the granularity of
resolution you would be trying to obtain. (That's assuming you can even
isolate all the responding frequencies from each other when you're
hitting thousands of them simultaneously.) It would be one thing if we
were talking about standardized mechanically-tagged,
mechanically-positioned containers. We aren't. We're talking about
human-tagged, human-shelved items that have been exposed to the Dark
Agents of Chaos otherwise known as "users". File me under skeptical.

### Comments ###
* blunders: +1 @Joe Atzberger: So, based on what I recall: \*\*(0)\*\* Yes, it was a
serial read, not multi-read. \*\*(1)\*\* the antenna/sensor was "highly"
directional \*\*(2)\*\* the shelving was "shielded" to attempt to
prevent false-positives \*\*(3)\*\* the scan was a 2-D slice of a 1-D
scan path.
* blunders: \*\*(4)\*\* Agree it's in part a hardware issue likely dependent on the
dimensional accuracy possible with RFID. \*\*(5)\*\* Let's be honest, a
one-off misreshelving of a book is not an issue unless is a systemic
problem. \*\*(6)\*\* Lastly, based on what I recall, both the robotic
scanner, and the shelves were mechanically-positioned; no idea about the
tags. \*\*(7)\*\* Thanks for posting, agree about being skeptical, hence
my post.

Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
While we reportedly do have [such a
thing](http://www.bibliotheca.com/1/index.php/ourproducts/library-solutions/staffsolutions/smartstock100-110),
I have been told that it wasn't considered very successfull at finding
dislocated items. It cannot check the shelf for sorting criteria, it can
only identify to the level of location information available from your
database. If you decide to carry this location information down to
single shelves, you will be punished by having to update that
information each and every time you're shuffling books around to make
space for more.

So while you might be able to check for misplaced books from other
(sub)libraries or shelf divisions, that's about where it ends.

Now, when we'd start lending magic gadgets to patrons who are
desperately searching their overdue library books within their vast
stacks of printed paper of seemingly endless appartments, RFID based
location might become popular indeed ...

### Comments ###
* blunders: Thanks. So, when you say, "we reportedly do have such a thing", who is
we, and what do they have?
* Tatjana Heuser: we: our library, what: I'll update the text with a link

