---
title : Standard policy for hiring substitute librarians
---
Standard policy for hiring substitute librarians
=====================
What's a good policy for hiring substitute librarians and should such a
policy include feedback to those substitutes after they are hired?

Jeni

### Comments ###
* wdenton: Can you define "substitute librarian"?
* Jeni: A "substitute librarian" is a librarian who temporarily replaces a
librarian who is out ill, at a conference, on maternity leave, etc. Most
libraries have a list of people available for substituting - these
people have been hired in some way to be substitutes.
* Jeni: I realize this is close to a 'discussion' type question, but I think a
specific policy would be a useful answer. As both a regular employee who
received feedback as a matter of policy and a substitute, who didn't -
I'd like to see if there is a better method for substitutes that a
library could adopt.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Our library does not review substitutes as a matter of policy, and in
fact we do not review employees who work fewer than 20 hours per week
unless they ask for a review. We would definitely be prepared to review
a substitute if it was requested - it's not in our policy but I would
not have a problem adding it. The difficulty in reviewing subs is that
their duties are limited to a small range of tasks, and they are not
closely monitored. It would require an adaptation to the evaluation form
we use for regular employees.

I will also add that I would be impressed with a substitute who asked
for a review. If you are subbing for a library that does not offer it
per policy, you should not be afraid to ask. Feedback is an important
part of professional growth. I am now a Library Director, and I sent out
review forms this month for staff to review me (sent anonymously to the
board, who will filter the information to me) - you can't fix what you
don't know you are doing wrong, and it is always nice to know what
things people think you do well.

### Comments ###

