---
title: "Reading for fun and not research"
layout: default
---
Reading for fun and not research
=====================
What are some proven methods that librarians can use to encourage
students to read not just for their coursework, but for fun?

Jeni

### Comments ###


Answer by Wowbagger
----------------
There are likely whole books focused on this topic, (and I usually have
the opposite problem -- students only want to use the internet for
research) but I think the simple answer is a combination of choice and
access.

First, give students access to the books they want to read. If it's
comics, then buy more comics. If it's vampire romances, then buy more
vampire romances. Ask for suggestions. You probably won't be able to
purchase everything, but you'll know what they want. They key is to
gauge their interests and not purchase based on our own.

Then, make sure students have regular opportunities to visit the library
on their own. I have students that often drop-in during their lunch
period or after school to check-out books.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
A number of thoughts come to mind:

-   Displays - don't display the "should reads" but the fun stuff...have
    lots of displays!
-   Connect reading to what they know and love already - most notably
    film. Introduce them to the books that came before the movies.
-   Give them backstory - Tell them the story of Hunter Thompson or
    Sylvia Plath and see if it doesn't interest them in opening a book.
    Connect them to author websites - most YA authors have them.
-   Get authors to visit. This takes time to organize, and it may take
    some budget, but it gives literature a face and a voice.
-   Read aloud. Even in high school.
-   Ask them what would make them more likely to read. You might get
    some fresh ideas!


### Comments ###

