---
title: "What's the most useful definition of technological obsolescence for digital preservation purposes?"
layout: default
---
What's the most useful definition of technological obsolescence for digital preservation purposes?
=====================
Technological obsolescence is commonly seen as a big issue in digital
preservation yet some people seem to have different interpretations of
what it means, leading to heated discussions about the point at which
formats or software become obsolete. So what's the most useful way we
can define technological obsolescence within a digital preservation
environment?

mopennock

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
I'd argue that it occurs when a given format is no longer in common use
by its original base of users because they've moved onto something else.

Luckily, it's not a 'drop dead' date; you have time to migrate off to
some other format, and you typically have enough time to do a survey to
evaluate what the best format to migrate to might be.

Occassionally, though, you still run into niche formats -- some
communities will keep a physical or file format as their standard even
when the rest of the world's moved on to something else, as it meets
their needs (and they don't want to retool everything). You have to be
careful about defining what your base of users is; Betacam was
considered obsolete by the consumer market more than a decade before it
was in the professional market. I know people who were still using
Betacam until a few (4?5?) years back, as that's what some TV stations
used for people to submit commercials.

When the community that you support starts moving to some other format
en masse, you should prepare to move. (but don't move as soon as some
new format that's supposed to everything gets announced, no matter how
'better' it might be, because if doesn't get the traction needed, it's
dead on arrival.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
David Pearson and Colin Webb provided a pretty detailed background to
and analysis of [file format obsolescence in their IJDC paper from
2008](http://dx.doi.org/10.2218/ijdc.v3i1.44), and they use this scoping
description:

> "Obsolescence describes a state of beoming obsolete, rather than a
> state of already being obsolete. For our purposes, however, we are
> interested in identifying file formats affected by both - obviously
> related - conditions:
>
> those that can no longer be rendered (and are therefore obsolete); and
>
> those that are likely to become unrenderable within a timeframe
> demanding action (and are therefore obsolescent).
>
> For convenience, we refer to both conditions with the label file
> format obsolescence, which we believe is in line with common usage in
> the digital preservation community, even though it may invite some
> ambiguity."

The paper also quotes me as describing:

> “a scale of obsolescence that begins with inconvenience to users and
> ends in the digital black hole of loss”

I think it's important to remember that this is a very fuzzy concept and
it means different things in different contexts. In most cases its more
about inconvenience and cost rather than that extreme of absolute loss.

When I used to work at the British Library, we informally used the term
"institutionally obsolete" for digital content that either wouldn't run
naty on a reading room machine or wouldn't run on a "typical" users
machine without installing some additional software. A case that was
"institutionally obsolete" might be quite easy to fix by a technically
competent individual via some extra rendering software (and hence
potentially dismissable as "not really obsolete"), but might be a
significant issue for the management of reading room machine setup and
maintenance.

Therefore, obsolescence is a pretty meaningless concept without that
crucial context.

This of course then brings us to the concept of Representation
Information (OAIS) and the idea of a network of information that informs
the rendering and understanding of digital information. Progress in
advancing this concept has been slow, but an approach to demonstrate how
it could be realised was described and tested way back in the late 1990s
by the Cedars Project: [A blueprint for Representation Information in
the OAIS model by Sergeant and
Holdsworth](http://storageconference.org/2000/papers/D02PA.PDF).

Ultimately we need more hard evidence on what obsolescence actually
means in practical terms as a long term preservation risk. Andy Jackson
made some first steps in analysing trends in format popularity within a
web archive in this iPRES paper: [Formats over Time: Exploring UK Web
History](http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1714). His conclusions suggest format
obsolescence is not as great a risk as some have suggested (Rothenberg's
famous "forever or 5 years, whichever is sooner" quote for example) but
there are trends of usage and specific examples of obsolescence that
require further examination.

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: One can argue that nothing ever goes obsolete, because if you are
willing to throw enough time and money at the problem, anything can be
reverse-engineered (except perhaps fully encrypted data). But of course,
reverse-engineering means having to guess, and maybe our concerns about
obsolescence are really rooted in knowing whether we are playing a
guessing game or whether we have some evidence or authority to rely on
(e.g. the original 'forward' engineers).
* mopennock: Thanks both. 'Institutionally obsolete' is certainly easier to define
and is more meaningful in a practical setting. Discussions across
different institutions are likely to still be tricky as an
institutionally obsolete object at one institution isn't necessarily
institutionally obsolete at another other.

