---
title: "Evaluating "Do Not Reshelve Books" policies"
layout: default
---
Evaluating "Do Not Reshelve Books" policies
=====================
How do you evaluate "Do Not Reshelve Books" policies relative to a given
patrons needs, and the library's needs?

blunders

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">policies</li><li class="tag">shelving</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Joe: Do you have a specific issue that you're trying to deal with? 'Do not
reshelve' policies are generally so that we can tell what materials are
being used in the library without being checked out. Of course, it has
no way of differentiating between 'I found what I wanted' vs. 'This was
useless'. The only problems I've experienced as a patron is when there
isn't sufficient staff to reshelve the materials in a timely manner, and
the book I was looking for wasn't checked out. Of course, one of the
books turned out to have been mis-shelved (which is one of the things
this policy helps prevent)
* blunders: @Joe: Question is about best practices, not a specific issue. Believe
all the points you touched on are valid, and would apply to an answer.
* sq33G: I'm not quite understanding the question. You want to know what factors
are important when weighing whether to have such a policy?
* librarianna: I understand that "do not reshelve policies" are in place to - as Joe
pointed out - keep track of what books are being used even when not
technically circulating, but do you think the second point (misshelving)
will become moot as libraries move towards RFID? If the OPAC says the
book is checked in, then someone could (feasibly) scan the entire
library to locate the book in a relatively short amount of time, right?


Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
At our site, these policies vary between sublibraries, but most and the
main house as well are asking readers not to reshelve the books
themselves. Misshelved books are a major problem, and regularly result
in a book marked missing while it is silently gathering dust just a few
shelves away. Also, since in the main house we've merged in several
smaller sublibraries, there are different catalogs applying to some sets
of shelves, and for the inexperienced reader, placing a book correctly
can be quite a challenge.

We have mobile racks for the books to be sorted back at the end of each
row of shelves, and our readers are asked to place those books on these
racks once they've removed them from their place. This way, they're
still within reach for other readers even while they're waiting to be
reshelved.

We're not keeping statistics on what has been taken out, the sheer
volume of books involved is just too prohibitive. Also, that data would
be of little value, since we cannot tell if the books were actively
used, scanned from, or weeded out by the reader at second glance.

### Comments ###

