---
title : What aspects of the process for a "complete" digital preservation system are missing from current software packages?
---
What aspects of the process for a "complete" digital preservation system are missing from current software packages?
=====================
I know a little about Ex Libris' digital preservation system
[Rosetta](http://www.exlibrisgroup.com/de/category/Rosetta), but never
saw it live. Yesterday I noticed that there seems to be an open source
alternative in development:
[Archivematica](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Main_Page).

Am I correct, that both products are developed to fullfill more or less
the same purpose?

What are the critical features of a digital preservation software that
should be sought after? What parts of the workflow of digital
preservation should be automated by integrated software packages and in
what way? How to identify a "good" software solution?

And concerning mainly Archivematica: if I would use it for digital
preservation, what main (technical) issues of long term preservation
would still remain unsolved? It does normalization, format
identification, format migration, packaging of AIPs etc. What is missing
for a "complete" digital preservation system - at least on the software
side?

Roland Lukesch

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Hi Roland, I did make some modifications to make the question more
general than an X vs. Y comparison (which can lead to a laundry list
rather than an answer). However, I think this question is a solid one at
its core.
* Roland Lukesch: Thanks @jonsca! Your formulation is fine for me.
* Steve Wasiura: Would you be able to search the web for user reviews of those 2 software
packages, read some of them, and compile a listing of negative review
attributes that mention the bad parts/ deficencies of each or both
software packages? would that get you on the right path? is your goal to
find the best software package for your needs, or to determine if there
is a hole in the market which could be filled with a new software
function?
* jonsca: @SteveWasiura Since your answer was mostly asking for clarification, I
converted it into a comment.
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: Part of the problem in the digital preservation space is that we're
lacking written reviews on the software we use. Many of us have
opinions, but we tend to leave those in the spoken word. Chris Prom at
Practical E-Records (http://e-records.chrisprom.com/) has done a good
job of establishing reviews for many smaller programs, but with these
larger systems, either they're so new or so wrapped up in contractual
confidentiality that it's hard to find reviews.


Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
Software (and hardware for that matter) can never become "complete"
digital preservation systems. Staff, budgets, infrastructure like
buildings, and policy are always part of the system that authenticates,
preserves, manages and provides access.

Software systems (like those you mentioned) are always going to be tools
that automate parts of your workflow. I should add that much of that
workflow is going to be content dependent. Now, if you want a list of
features you might take a look at the [Trustworthy Repositories Audit &
Certification: Criteria and
Checklist](http://www.dcc.ac.uk/resources/repository-audit-and-assessment/trustworthy-repositories)

Or the ongoing work of the National Digital Stewardship Alliance to
identify [tiered levels of digital
preservation](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2012/09/help-define-levels-for-digital-preservation-request-for-public-comments/).

### Comments ###
* Roland Lukesch: I know that running some software is far away from being a complete
preservation system. Nevertheless, I tried to focus my question
specifically on software. It is at least a vital part of every
preservation effort. I'm aware of those two resources you mentioned but
when it comes to functionality of preservation software they seem to me
a bit too less granular. So, to reframe my question: What parts of the
workflow of digital preservation should be automated by integrated
software packages and in what way? How to identify a "good" software
solution?
* anarchivist: Can you reframe your question by editing it above?

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
In general, open-source and commercial digital preservation software
offer many of the same features. Most of them even incorporate the same
software like DROID. The major differences that I've found are in the
storage of metadata and the granularity of user permissions.

### Metadata Storage

First, one of the larger differences you'll see right now is the use of
databases to record metadata. Alot of individual tools generate a
METS/PREMIS object to contain the technical (format, file
specifications, etc), administrative (copyright, etc) and descriptive
metadata for each object or group of objects it processes. Digital
preservation environments like Archivematica, Ex Libris Rosetta, and
Tessella System Preservica/SDB also place this information into a
database.

Using a database allows you to hook up your archive to a search system
more easily and, I think most importantly, it gives you better control
over future preservation actions. For instance, you can run a report to
return a list of all the formats you're holding. Then, when you identify
a format you'd like to migrate, you can search for a list of those
specific files. The metadata and database should then track whatever
preservation actions you perform on those objects. Note that it's
probably safer to maintain both the metadata object and the database to
guard against either becoming disassociated from the preserved objects.

### User Permissions

Second, commercial systems often include more complex systems for
defining user access. Rosetta and SDB/Preservica both allow
administrators to restrict actions like ingest, preservation, and
metadata editing to certain classes of users, and will record the ID of
users that perform these actions. Restricting access increases the
security of files and builds greater provenance. However, this feature
is not as necessary for smaller organizations.

Edit 2013/03/04: Thanks to Artefactual Systems for clearing up an error
on my part.

### Comments ###

