---
title: "Relation between different edtions of a book"
layout: default
---
Relation between different edtions of a book
=====================
I am a software developer and trying to make a small software for
library management. Here is a particular requirement that my client
wants to add to it. When user(client) is viewing a book, the software
should display a button labelled **'View all editions'** and when user
clicks on the button it should display a list of different editions of
the current book from database.

Just wondering what would be the relation/link between multiple editions
of the book so that I can implement it in the database design and
application logic.

Bishnu Paudel

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">school-libraries</li><li class="tag">book-recommendations</li><li class="tag">frbr</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Do you really want to build a library management software from scratch
instead of reusing an existing (possible open source) software? In my
experience the complexity of library management software is regularly
underestimated by software developers not having worked in the library
business before.
* wdenton: [Evergreen](http://www.open-ils.org/) or
[Koha](http://koha-community.org/) would be worth checking. They would
welcome new developers who want to work on their projects!


Answer by Jakob
----------------
You may be looking for an **edition-to-work relationship**, which links
all editions to the general work they are derived from. In the very
likely case of your data not having work identifiers, you may need to
combine your data with external services such as [LibraryThing's
ThingISBN](http://www.librarything.de/api). In any case you should ask
your library how they define an "edition of the same work".

### Comments ###

Answer by wdenton
----------------
Another similar tool is OCLC's
[xISBN](http://xisbn.worldcat.org/xisbnadmin/doc/api.htm).

The general issue here is, as Jakob said in FRBR terms (Functional
Requirements for Bibiographic Records), tying together Manifestations of
Expressions of the same Work. It's complicated. No-one has it all
figured out yet.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
"Edition" is a *really* tricky concept.

FRBR doesn't specifically call out the concept, and there have been a
lot of different interepretations, typically based on whatever's useful
for a particular media being indexed and the organization doing the
indexing. A change that one group might consider to be just a new
Manifestation might be considered by someone else to be a new
Expression, or even a new Work. (see the Library of Congress's [What is
FRBR?](http://www.loc.gov/catdir/cpso/whatfrbr.html) for a definition of
Work, Expression and Manifestation).

The main example of problem 'editions' are text books -- most editions
of the book are effectively teaching the same concepts, in the same
order, but there may be enough changes to pagination, layout or example
problems that make it impossible for a student to do the same homework
based on page & question numbers. It's obviously a new Manifestation,
but is it also a new Expression, or even a new Work?

For fiction, those problems don't tend to be as prevalent; there may be
some content added (eg, a new foreward that puts the novel into a
different context), but you don't tend to have as significant wholesale
changes. You may have some differences in editions intended for
different audiences, such as the [additional footnotes and section in
the American version of *Good
Omens*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_Omens#Alterations_between_versions)

More typically, if there's something of this magnitude in a novel, it'd
be in artwork, but this gets into other issues if the art was not part
of the original book. (then you have a Manifestation with more than one
Work: the original story plus the new artwork). I can think of at least
[one case where this was reversed, and the artwork removed in
*Stardust*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stardust_%28novel%29#Publication_history).
In this case, we further complicate matters as the original publication
was as a four part serial which was republished as a composite multiple
times, then had the text portion stripped out which was also published
in multiple forms. (and then made into a movie, but movie adapations are
generally considered to be new Works in FRBR; I also won't get into if
it was a 'Composite Work' vs. a 'Composite Manifestation' for the
initial collected work, but that issue of how to model composites I
don't believe has really been solved).

And then we get into issues of translations. Now, most people wouldn't
consider the Spanish translation of a book originally in English to be a
new 'edition' of a book, and many people model translations as a new
Work ... but what do we do when there are multiple translations into the
same language? Should they be considered editions of each other, or as
seperate but related entities? For instance, we have classic poems such
as Dante's *Inferno*, some translations that have attempted a [more
accurate
translation](http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0451531396) while
others attempt to [maintain structure and
rhyming](http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0374525315). In a
possibly more extreme case, we have the bible; there was a fair bit of
disagreement over the 2011 NIV translation.

Where I've really seen the most problem isn't in books ... it's in
movies. All of the 'Deluxe Edition', 'Special Edition', 'Director's
Cut', widescreen vs. pan & scan, etc. And then you work in VHS vs. DVD
vs. BluRay vs. HD-DVD vs. laserdisc, etc.

So ... with all of this said, I'd really suggest you follow Jakob's &
wdenton's advice, and look into existing systems. It looks like oss4lib
has handed off to [foss4lib](http://foss4lib.org/) for their list of
open source library software; if you have more specific requirements,
you can try asking on the [code4lib mailing
list](http://dewey.library.nd.edu/mailing-lists/code4lib/).

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
When you are using the World Catalog, there is an option you can click
for "Search for versions with the same title and author" which picks up
all editions. This is a small library you are programming for, so it
seems like it should be as simple as that.

### Comments ###

Answer by Michael Hopwood
----------------
Have a look at these initiatives in the publishing metadata world for
some hints:

[http://www.editeur.org/ONIX/book/codelists/current.html](http://www.editeur.org/ONIX/book/codelists/current.html)
- especially List 21, Edition type code; List 12, Trade category code
and some of the other "form", "format" etc. lists...

[http://www.istc-international.org/html/](http://www.istc-international.org/html/)
- the International Standard Text Code identifier for grouping ISBNs
around a central "work"...

### Comments ###

