---
title: "Effective presentation of information in classes for library patrons"
layout: default
---
Effective presentation of information in classes for library patrons
=====================
Which approach has proven to be more effective in a situation involving,
e.g., teaching patrons to use a genealogy database?

1.  Stand-and-Deliver with slides/PowerPoint, which incorporate screen
    shots specific to your library's systems, along with take-away
    copies.
2.  All attendees online individually with Facilitator projecting image
    of his/her computer screen?


Jane Nearing

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is a very open ended question that is really more of a discussion
suited to a forum rather than a question on a q and a site.
* jonsca: Jane, I took a crack at editing this, see if it's still in line with
your intent. It would be great if you could generalize it even further,
as "what does your library do..." tends to lead to open-ended
discussion.
* jonsca: Once you've made some edits, if you want to reopen it, flag it for a mod
to take a look, please.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
People do learn best by doing, but having everyone online attempting to
so the same thing at the same is extremely frustrating as a teacher and
also, often, as a student. The problem I have run into with it is that
you end up teaching to the slowest student, and your quicker students
jump ahead and then miss instruction because they were in the wrong
place. My suggestion (based on years of teaching in a variety of
situations):

1.  Start with a presentation that previews what they will do, complete
    with handouts they will use at the computer. It may include a
    demonstration rather than slides.
2.  Next, send them to the computers with a list of applicable tasks and
    have them work in pairs. People are amazing at helping each other -
    one of them will have heard one step and another a different step,
    and between them they will figure it out. The instructor moves from
    station to station to help when pairs are stuck or to answer
    questions that grow from the exercises.
3.  Finally, let people explore on their own, using the software for
    their own purpose. The instructor can move student to student, but
    as students work on their own, if you are busy they will tend to ask
    others around them since they have practice in this.

I have used this successfully with 6-year-olds learning to program with
Logo all the way up to architects learning to use CAD software. It does
make for a long teaching session. If you are teaching something simple
or small in scope, you may be able to skip the second or third step, but
I would avoid trying to orchestrate having everyone do the same thing at
the same time.

### Comments ###

