---
title : In what cases should a library or archive plan on emulation as part of a digital preservation strategy?
---
In what cases should a library or archive plan on emulation as part of a digital preservation strategy?
=====================
At what point, or under what conditions should a library or archive plan
on emulation as a strategy for viewing and or making accessible
particular kinds of content?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by Euan
----------------
Trevor, I’m not sure if it was intended but your question could be
interpreted in many ways. I’ll attempt below to answer most of the
interpretations I’ve identified. The question was:

**At what point, or under what conditions should a library or archive
plan on emulation as a strategy for viewing and or making accessible
particular kinds of content?**

At what point should a Library or Archive decide what their digital
object interaction or access strategy should be? Ideally ies and
Archives should know what their interaction or access strategy will be
before the objects that they will be handling are created. Knowing their
strategy at such a point would enable them to provide guidance to
creators that would:

1.  Enable the creators to create without unnecessary limitations on
    which software or formats they should use (formats can restrict
    functionality)
2.  Enable efficient and effective continued long term access to the
    objects
3.  Not be cost-prohibitive over the projected life of the objects to
    either the creator or future steward of the digital objects

In reality both Libraries and Archives rarely have a sufficient degree
of influence over the creation of the content that they end up handling
to be able to enforce the application of any guidance they might want to
give. As a result it is worthwhile to consider other points at which
Libraries and Archives might benefit most from deciding upon their
interaction/access strategy for their digital objects. If emulation were
to be enacted as a long term access/interaction (I’ve substituted
interaction for viewing here as I suspect that is what Trevor is more
interested in) strategy then the next best time for the Library or
Archive to decide to do this is likely to be before they accept items
for transfer to the Library or Archive. Making the decision at that
point enables a number of key steps to be included in the transfer
process that will make enacting the emulation strategy much easier:

\<\>

Intended rendering applications/environments can be identified via the
transferring agency or donor.

Software licenses and binaries can be transferred to the Library or
Archive.

Standard rendering/interaction environments (e.g. “all of government
desktops”) can be snapshotted and moved to emulated hardware for use in
interaction/access the objects that are to be transferred.

All of these steps are much more difficult and costly, or impossible at
a later date.

How late can a Library or Archive leave deciding what their digital
object interaction or access strategy should be?

The answer to this question will depend on what the impact will be of a
Library or Archive leaving their decision until very late. What might
the *negative* consequences be for a Library or Archive if they were to
leave making their decision about what their digital object interaction
or access strategy should be till the point at which someone needs to
view or access their objects? If they were to use emulation as their
strategy at that point then:

1.  they might struggle to know which software to emulate to use for
    interacting with the objects (i.e. they may not be able to ascertain
    what the intended interaction environment should be).
2.  There may be no emulator available for the particular environment
    they want to emulate and:

    ​a) No documentation left to enable them to create a new emulator
    for that environment

    ​b) A significant cost may need to be incurred to create a new
    emulator for that environment

    c)No documentation left to enable use of emulated environment and
    effective interaction with the object by non-specialists.

What might the *positive* consequences be for a Library or Archive if
they were to leave making their decision about what their digital object
interaction or access strategy should be till the point at which someone
needs to view or access their objects?

1.  Tools to identify original creation environment and associated
    default interaction environment may have been created and developed
    to a point of high functionality.
2.  [Emulation
    services](http://openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2011-05-19-remote-emulation)
    may be available at a low cost that are simple to use and
    inexpensive (e.g. submit the object and it is remotely emulated and
    provided for interaction via a browser or local app).
3.  End-user software documentation may be available and integrated with
    emulation tools and services as a “help-layer” enabling easy use of
    old software by users who have moved on to new interaction
    paradigms.

The consequences of leaving such a decision to such a late point when
using other strategies will be different. When deciding which strategy
your Library or Archive will use it will be worth considering the
consequences of the decision with respect to all possible choices.

**Under what conditions should a library ochive choose an emulation
based solution as its digital object interaction or access strategy
rather than an alternative?**

There are a number of ways to answer this question. Firstly, a Library
or Archive should always choose an emulation based solution as its
digital object interaction or access strategy when there are no feasible
alternatives. When might that be the case?

**At what point does emulation become the only option as a digital
preservation strategy?**

There is potential for an emulation solution to become the only option
for a Library or Archive to use as their interaction/access strategy for
their digital content. Such a situation might arise if the following
conditions are met:

1.  necessary interaction software still exists
2.  an emulator to run the software exists or can be constructed and
    tested using original compatibility tests (for more information on
    how to know when to trust an emulation solution see
    [here](http://digitalcontinuity.org/post/33771879522/how-could-son-b-could-rely-on-the-emulation-solution).)
3.  using original hardware and software is not an option
4.  no alternative interaction or viewing tools are available (such as
    migration/normalization tools).

Many files have been created with structures that are not openly
documented and for which the only tool available for interacting with or
viewing the content captured in that structure is the original software.
In such cases, assuming the documentation outlining the way the software
writes the files cannot be acquired, using the original hardware is not
an option, and the original interaction software can be loaded into an
emulated environment, then emulation will likely be the only option left
available.

It may be possible to use reprogrammable hardware such as a [Field
Programmable Gate
Array](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-programmable_gate_array) to
[create the original hardware in programmable
hardware](http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2011/08/accuracy-takes-power-one-mans-3ghz-quest-to-build-a-perfect-snes-emulator/?comments=1&post=21936534#comment-21936534).
But for all intents and purposes this is effectively another
(potentially faster) version of emulation.

**When should a Library or Archive choose emulation as their
interaction/access strategy only for particular kinds of content and
another strategy for other kinds of content?**

Digital object interaction/access strategies that rely solely on
emulation will never be appropriate for interacting with or accessing
object content that involves a hardware component. In such cases, for
example when replicating the full experience of a video game as played
on a particular console, emulation alone will not be enough for
accessing/interacting with the content. Replica hardware, such as game
controllers, may need to be produced in order to maintain the full
content experience. The advent of inexpensive microcomputers such as the
[raspberry pi](http://www.raspberrypi.org/) and [inexpensive 3D
printers](http://www.economist.com/news/science-and-technology/21565577-new-manufacturing-technique-could-help-poor-countries-well-rich-ones?fsrc=scn/tw/te/pe/athirdworlddimension)
such as the [MakerBot](http://www.makerbot.com/) may make this option
much more viable and prevalent in the near future. A migration strategy
that is able to be tested and confirmed for every object it is used to
access may be more practical in some circumstances for use as a
viewing/interaction strategy. For example if processing a lot of simple
objects that have few components to them migration may be more
economical. Unfortunately most migration tools and processes currently
do not incorporate comprehensive testing procedures and
[anecdotal](http://archives.govt.nz/resources/information-management-research/rendering-matters-report-results-research-digital-object-r)
[evidence](http://www.atlasofdigitaldamages.info/v1/migration-issues/wordstar-migration-to-ms-word/)
suggests that migration processes can often destroy content. In such
cases the processes are effectively failing at adequately enabling
viewing or interaction with the object as the object no longer exists in
the same form post migration.

Most good migration candidates are simple objects that often can still
be accessed by current software such as text-based formats and simple
images. As they can often still be accessed by current software there is
a [question to be
asked](http://blog.dshr.org/2007/04/format-obsolescence-scenarios.html)
as to why the Library or Archive would bother migrating them at all.

**Under what circumstances would emulation be a preferable option to the
alternatives for accessing or interacting with content?.**

In almost all cases employing an emulation strategy for interacting with
or viewing old digital content will be preferable than any alternatives.
Emulation gives a richer, more
[authentic](http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Authenticity_in_art&oldid=516960597#Authenticity_of_performance)
experience that can often evoke more emotion and feeling in the viewer
than just seeing some raw data would. When coupled with options to
enable the user to print the emulated content they are viewing, to copy
text & images from the object into a modern environment, to print the
content to a file, or to use the original rendering software to create a
new file based on the old file but using a different save-as parameter
(e.g. from a .doc file to a .rtf), the emulation experience is often a
much fuller and more gratifying experience than alternatives.

When in a court of law in which digital evidence is being presented I
would personally want to see the content that was presented using the
original software, rather than seeing whatever content was left when the
original file(s) was run through a migration process (i.e. see the
actual content rather than manipulated/different content). I have
blogged about this
[here](http://digitalcontinuity.org/post/33715122952/a-scenario-illustrating-the-importance-of-digital).
In fact this would be my preference in most if not all circumstances in
which something important in my life hinged on some old digital content.
Whether or not this is a widely held opinion still needs to be tested,
however the Rules of the High Court of New Zealand were recently updated
to include references to the need for preservation of “native electronic
documents” when such objects are submitted as evidence. Native
electronic documents or native file formats are defined as: “an
electronic document stored in the original form in which it was created
by a computer software program”. This may indicate a greater recognition
of the need to enable access to/interaction with u versions of digital
objects.

**Emulation may turn out to be cheaper and economically “fairer” than
alternative options.**

Emulation may have two economic advantages over alternative methods:

Once emulation services are in place the processes that Libraries or
Archives need to implement if choosing an emulation strategy will likely
be less onerous than alternatives. The essential steps for implementing
an emulation strategy in such an organisation are to know what envients
they need for interacting with all their digital objects and to make
sure a service exists that provides that environment. The organisations
can then choose which business model to operate under to enable access
to/interaction with the objects. They might, for example, have a few
workstations in their buildings for users to use at no cost for
interacting with the objects. And/or they may have a limited set of
remote-access licenses. In such cases the end-users would have an option
for no-cost access to the objects but if they want to they could also
pay for a remote service themselves.

In addition to these optional business models and the low initial cost
for Libraries and Archives, emulation tools services are likely to cost
less to maintain over time. A single emulator can be used to maintain
thousands of emulation environments (or more). The long term maintenance
costs will relate to migrating the emulator to new host environments
over time. To reduce this cost, initiatives such as
[Dioscuri](http://dioscuri.sourceforge.net/) the modular emulator offer
mechanisms for lowering this cost by removing the need to migrate much
of the code base. Most importantly though, the cost of migrating the one
emulator to enable the continued emulation of thousands of environments,
which in turn enables continued access to millions/billions of digital
objects, is likely to be much less than the cost to continually migrate
each individual digital file over time.

Furthermore with emulation you are always able to open objects
structured with a particular format. With migration/normalisation you
may have to decide how long you want to maintain a migration path for.
So, for example, if in 100 years time someone comes to you with a
WordStar 6 file that they found on a server of legacy objects, there may
no longer be a migration path available for it. On the other hand, if
emulation had been the chosen strategy for those files then they will
still be accessible using the emulated environment used for the other
WordStar 6 files that still exist in your Library or Archive.

This leads us to the second reason why emulation may be a preferable
option for your Library or Archive: it may be economically fairer.
Emulation, unlike continued migration or normalisation, enables
Libraries and Archives to pass the access/interaction costs on to the
generation that is using the objects. Emulation is applied just in time
rather than just in case and so enables the cost to be born by the user
(or the institution) at the time of use rather than by whoever is there
whenever the files need to be migrated, or by the agency when the file
is transferred and normalised.

This is a good point at which to address Normalisation. Functionally
normalisation is the same as migration but conducted when the objects
are first in the possession of the Library or Archive. Eventually all
normalised files will also have to be migrated just as migrated files
will eventually have to be re-migrated when the new files are no longer
accessible. Any decent migration strategy should be migrating content to
open formats and therefore should eventually get the same results as a
(open standards based) normalisation strategy would and therefore the
two strategies can be equated and over the long term fall-prey to the
same criticisms mentioned elsewhere in this answer.

So to readdress the questions Trevor asked:

**At what point, or under what conditions should a library or archive
plan on emulation as a strategy for viewing and or making accessible
particular kinds of content?**

A Library or Archive should decide on their strategy as early as
possible to gain the most economic benefit as possible. They should
choose emulation in most circumstances as it provides a better outcome,
but most definitely when they have no other choice. They will not be
able to choose emulation alone as a strategy for all content, e.g.
content that has a physical component, however if they do choose
emulation then it is likely that they will be economically better off
and the costs of implementing their strategy will be more fairly
distributed to the users that actually benefit from it.

In general though the most important things a Library or Archive can do
right now to keep their options open in regards to access/interaction
strategies are as follows:

-   Document what you have.
-   Fully understand the creating applications and intended interaction
    applications.
-   Acquire software & licenses for the software you may need to emulate
-   Take snapshots of interaction environments (and potentially
    interesting desktops or servers).
-   Have the creators tell you what the formats objects are structured
    using
-   Have creators tell you which environments should be used with their
    objects
-   Have creators tell you what content should be preserved from digital
    files (including physical components and interactive components
    -e.g. is being able to turn on and off tracked changes important?)
    and which content can be removed during a preservation or
    access/interaction process.
-   Thoroughly document the date the object was created - this can
    provide one of the best indicators for which tools might be needed
    for access/interaction.
-   Provide support for the development of tools and services

Emulation tools and services have the potential to provide an amazingly
rich digital history experience. It is my hope that one day emulation
will be the default and invisible option used for accessing older
digital content. Objects will automatically be opened in their intended
interaction environment and users will be able to extract data and gain
insight from the original content in the intended context. Hopefully my
answer here helps convince others to get behind this vision also.

### Comments ###

