---
title: "How to replace damaged or lost media cover artwork?"
layout: default
---
How to replace damaged or lost media cover artwork?
=====================
Our local library has a problem with damaged or missing cover artwork on
media such as audio books, audio CDs, and DVD movies.

They typically look for replacement artwork online and print new copies
to insert in media cases. However this is time consuming and often
results in poor quality images if any are found at all.

I suggested that they:

-   contact publishers to see if new art can be emailed directly to the
    library
-   make a policy of only distributing photocopies of artwork rather
    than original; keep the originals in filing cabinets
-   charge patrons for damaging cover artwork (they do not currently do
    this)

* * * * *

**Questions:**

1.  Is there a generally accepted method of maintaining cover artwork
    for these items?

2.  What methods should libraries use to repair artwork?

3.  And finally, how can libraries better deter patrons from damaging or
    losing artwork?



JYelton

### Comments ###


Answer by Michelle McLean
----------------
1.  We order a copy of the same title from another library and copy that
    cover, to ensure that it is as close as possible. It also works out
    to be less time-consuming. The idea of contacting the publisher is
    good, but it depends on the publisher and whether they are easy to
    contact and how helpful they are.

2.  If the insert can be invisibly repaired from the back, we use the
    relevant tapes etc, to do so.

3.  There is no way to deter people. We charge for damage, but this is
    not a deterrent, but a means of partial cost recovery. Most damage
    is accidental anyway.

As for your suggestions - keeping the originals and sending out copies
with the item sounds even more time consuming, depending on how many
inserts are being damaged.

### Comments ###
* JYelton: One thought on keeping originals and only sending out copies is to do so
only for collections (i.e. juvenile) that have higher incidences of
damage, and is a smaller collection.

