---
title : Is there a hardware controller/option for acquiring data/images off floppy disks which could directly replace the Catweasel?
---
Is there a hardware controller/option for acquiring data/images off floppy disks which could directly replace the Catweasel?
=====================
The
[Catweasel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Individual_Computers_Catweasel)
used to be the obvious way to put together a more-or-less universal
floppy-disk rescue machine, but as far as I know it's no longer being
manufactured. Assuming one doesn't have old machines at hand to use,
what's the best way to put together a workstation that can rescue data
from old floppies of various sizes?

dsalo

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Hey dsalo, I edited this just a tad to make it less open-ended.


Answer by anarchivist
----------------
Your best option **now** is probably the
[KryoFlux](http://kryoflux.com/). The KryoFlux attaches to a computer
using USB and allows you to sample the raw magnetic flux transitions
read by the drive from a disk. The KryoFlux software handles decoding
the flux transition data into sector data, but to do so, it requires you
to know something about the media you're trying to acquire. Nonetheless,
it's a reliable piece of hardware in terms of acquiring a baseline
regardless of the underlying encoding or logical format on the media.

However, the license for the KryoFlux for anything other than personal
use is somewhat restrictive and expensive. That said, the Software
Preservation Society (the organization that developed the boards) have
been willing to let libraries, archives, and museums evaluate the
KryoFlux before purchase.

The [DiscFerret](http://www.discferret.com/wiki/DiscFerret) is promising
option. Like the KryoFlux, it samples flux transitions from the drive
(although at a higher resolution than the KryoFlux), and the hardware
and software are both completely open. However, the DiscFerret is not
yet in full production, and there are limited numbers of pre-production
boards available for sale primarily for developer testing.

If you only need to acquire images of 5.25" floppies, you can use the
[Device Side Data FC5025](http://www.deviceside.com/fc5025.html), which
is relatively inexpensive.

### Comments ###
* Euan: +1 for the Kryoflux. It is great and user-friendly though yes expensive
for non-personal use. Also you still need to be able to get the data out
of the images after you have created them and to know which type of
image you want to create in the first place. Both of these can be hard
if you don't know what you have.

Answer by Bill Lefurgy
----------------
There is a good discussion of this in the Jan. 2012 report, [AIMS
Born-Digital Collections: An Inter-Institutional Model for
Stewardship](http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/aims/whitepaper/AIMS_final.pdf)
(PDF). The report discusses a number of hardware strategies for 5.25"
floppy disks, including the aforementioned Catweasel and KryoFlux, as
well as USB and motherboard solutions. There are also discussions of
other tools such as AccessData FTK (Forensic ToolKit), Curator's
Workbench, FRED (Forensic Recovery Evidence Device), etc.

### Comments ###

