---
title: "Maintaining a separation between the Library and the Friends Group"
layout: default
---
Maintaining a separation between the Library and the Friends Group
=====================
Our library has a Friends group. Currently they have a webpage on our
website that gives information about the group and a link to an email
address if someone is interested in joining. They would like to add a
PayPal link so that people can pay for a membership or donate to the
Friends Group. The library has its own page for donations as well. I am
concerned about the conflict this presents. The Friends group is a
separate organization from the library. Someone donating on our website
may be confused as to whom they are donating; they might also think that
paying membership dues makes them a member of the library. I know from
an accounting audit standpoint, all funds must be kept separate.

Many libraries require their Friends group to maintain their own website
(which can be linked to from the library's site). This seems the
simplest way to keep a separation between the groups. Our Friends group
does not have the technical resources to do this.

So finally, my question: Is it essential to keep websites and donation
buttons separate for the library and the Friends group, and why?

Mary Jo Finch

### Comments ###
* Epicentre: Perhaps it would be easier if we knew what type of library and where the
website is hosted? The company/organization that hosts the site may be
able to advise.
* Ashley Nunn: (Re-adding Mary Jo's comment): It is a public library, and we host our
own website. So the Friends group would need to host their own.


Answer by Fisher
----------------
As long as the language is clear both on the webpage and through the
paypal links that the person is donating to the Friends group, there
should not be an issue. Any burden for making sure they are donating to
the organization they intend is then on the user, not the library or the
Friends group.

If there is a lot of concern and the Friends group cannot/will not start
their own separate site, you could also add a note under/with the donate
button to the effect of 'Did you mean to donate to XXX?' and link to the
other's donation page.

Are Friends groups completely separate from their libraries? Yes. But
they exist to support the library, so there is no conflict of interest
in the keeping their page on the library's site.

### Comments ###

Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
Places like Dreamhost offer free web hosting to 501(c)3 nonprofits, so
this is one avenue to help your Friends group develop their own web
presence and to introduce clarity about who's doing what. Once in place,
the library can link to the Friends group, but (assuming they don't try
to use your library's look-n-feel) it should be clearer which is which.

### Comments ###
* Joe: Depending on the size of the Friends group, they might not be a 501(c)3
... our local library group decided it wasn't worth the hassle and
filing fees; if someone wants a tax write-off, they can always funnel it
through the larger county library system group, which is registered
non-profit. There are, however, still places that will do free sites for
anyone. Google Sites comes to mind, but I've never personally used them.
* Henry Mensch: if google sites is a part of google apps then the landscape has changed
in the last week or so.
* Joe: They're related, but as of a check a minute ago, it's still free. And my
understanding for some of the other stuff is that they grandfathered the
accounts to some degree -- so basic services are still free, if you had
signed up before they made the change.

