---
title : How to build a Dewey number for a Hanukkah/Christmas interfaith item?
---
How to build a Dewey number for a Hanukkah/Christmas interfaith item?
=====================
I am cataloguing an item called "A Christmas Hanukkah Program" by Leon
Paul ([WorldCat record
here](http://www.worldcat.org/title/christmas-hanukkah-program/oclc/083451936))
and am **planning to assign: 296.435** with all of our Hanukkah
materials.

I have searched for similar interfaith materials under slang topics like
'Chrismukkah', but these are usually junior fiction or memoir-like
materials in 800s literature. This publication is not fiction; it is a
'how to put on a play' type resource that reflects both traditional
Hanukkah history and Catholic points of view. The author dedicates the
publication "to my mother who lighted the way of the Old Testament for
me; and to my wife, who lighted the way of the New Testament for me."

This is a religious repository and I would like to keep the publication
in the 200s. Does anyone have any suggestions on adding a digit to
296.435- to distinguish this combined faith material from other pure
Hanukkah materials? Or suggestions on building a different Dewey number?

Canadian Girl Scout

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
In WorldCat, I find two books that cover both holidays at 296/.02/427:

*What I wish my Christian friends knew about Judaism*\
 *A Christian's guide to Judaism*

There are no books in the WorldCat designated with 296.435X, which means
you are probably free to assign your own 4th digit to suit your
particular collection. I don't have access to OCLC's Dewey Services to
verify. OCLC is "a nonprofit, membership, computer library service and
research organization dedicated to the public purposes of furthering
access to the world’s information and reducing information costs" (per
their website) which charges a lot of money for access to Dewey
documentation.

Whatever digit you choose, it will place the book at the end of your
Hanukkah section. If you want someone who is browsing to find this book,
you might want to leave it at 296.435 so it falls within the Hanukkah
section.

### Comments ###
* Canadian Girl Scout: Based on this answer, I am going to assign 296.4357 with the "7" showing
that it is a version/blending of traditions celebrated in North America,
and the author is American.

