---
title: "Short stories by single author: shelve with fiction or with short story anthologies?"
layout: default
---
Short stories by single author: shelve with fiction or with short story anthologies?
=====================
I work at a mid-size public library. Currently, short story collections
by a single author are shelved with the rest of that author's work in
the regular Fiction section. I am thinking of moving them to the short
story section. My thinking is that it is easy to find an author's work,
so shelving single author collections with the rest of the short stories
will make it easier for patrons who want to browse all the short
stories. Has anyone implemented a change in either direction, and what
effect did it have on circulation?

Jenny Arch

### Comments ###
* Joe: You could always add a sign in the anthologies mentioning that there are
more short stories by (list of authors) shelved in the regular fiction
section.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Every community is different, but at the last library I worked we moved
short stories out of Dewey literature and into fiction, and circulation
increased. An Emma Donoghue fan may try her short stories if they are
sitting next to her novels but is unlikely to browse in the literature
section for such. In our community, we do not seem to have a lot of
dedicated short story readers; we definitely have a clientele that
selects by browsing more often than by catalog search.

Your ILS reporting options may allow you to check how your short stories
are circulating currently in the two areas. It may not be
straightforward - you may have to pull the data into spreadsheets to
manipulate. I just ran a report of our two areas for lifetime
circulations - 17 for literature (once per year - they tend to have been
in the collection longer) and 20 for fiction (2 per year). In general,
our fiction materials check out 7 times each per year.

### Comments ###

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
I think there are more "fans of x author" that want more of their work
then their are "fans of short fiction." I would suggest continuing to
shelve short stories by author in fiction, but also doing regular
displays highlighting the availability of short story collections by
individual authors. I have done something similar to highlight the
nonfiction books about the works of popular authors like Stephen King,
Diana Gabaldon, etc., and circulation has increased.

### Comments ###

