---
title: "Bridging paper and digital periodicals"
layout: default
---
Bridging paper and digital periodicals
=====================
As more periodicals & resources move to a digital only format (e.g.
Newsweek, Morningstar), how are libraries bridging the paper-digital
transition especially with in library use?

For a library that has a strong in library use of such periodicals as
are moving digital, how can they continue to offer these in a
convenient, user-friendly manner and help paper users make the jump to a
new format? What is a good strategy for instructing staff and patrons
about the changes?

Fisher

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I think the trick is ease of access. If members have to go through
complicated login procedures, you do lose a lot of them. Ebsco is
offering a new search interface (it costs) which allows users to find
articles from a lot of your resources through a keyword search from your
home page. Members are prompted for login *after* resources have been
found. This is a step in the right direction for magazines that are
bound up in databases.

At our library, we have a lot of in-house use of magazines, but we are
going to be reducing the paper a little this year and introducing Zinio
(product of Recorded Books), which allows the library's users to sign up
to receive issues on the day of release on their device of choice.
Hopefully we will have it up and running by January - I cannot attest to
its success as yet. There is an annual cost for the service (based on
population size) plus a reasonable cost per subscription. Magazine
publishers are apparently prepared to go along with this model because
they also make money on advertisements, which are delivered to our users
just as they are in the paper magazine.

### Comments ###
* Fisher: Thanks, Mary Jo. I'd love to hear about your experience with Zinio after
you've had it up and running for a while. Do you have any suggestions on
informing patrons of the change? And are you just having folks use the
current patron computers to access them or are you adding more
computers/tablets/other devices specifically for digital periodical use?

