---
title: "How to run a report in Koha to find out which call numbers grow at higher rates"
layout: default
---
How to run a report in Koha to find out which call numbers grow at higher rates
=====================
I have inherited a Koha 3.05 installation, and now need to figure out
how to run a report within Koha to find out which call numbers grow at
higher rates... I know it's going to be like a SQL query, but I don't
understand the actual process at this point, much less how to craft this
particular query.

Any help is appreciated, I'm a Koha admin newbie.

Tamoko

### Comments ###
* Gem: To clarify, are you looking for circ increase or item count increase?
Depending on your level of comfort with SQL, this site might provide
some hints: http://wiki.koha-community.org/wiki/SQL\_Reports\_Library
There are a couple of queries that look like they could be modified to
be close to what you want but I don't have a Koha database to test them
on to be sure.


Answer by ND Geek
----------------
If you're talking about collection growth, the best way I can think of
to find that is to pull out a monthly count by call number, and then
graph it in Excel. The query to pull this data out gets a bit messy,
though, if you're using LC call numbers, as MySQL doesn't care to parse
substrings based on patterns:

    SELECT date_format(items.dateaccessioned, '%M %Y') AS "Month Added",
        SUBSTR(TRIM(items.itemcallnumber), 1, LEAST(
            IF(LOCATE(' ', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE(' ', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF(LOCATE('0', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('0', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF(LOCATE('1', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('1', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF(LOCATE('2', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('2', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF(LOCATE('3', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('3', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF(LOCATE('4', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('4', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('5', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('5', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('6', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('6', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('7', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('7', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('8', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('8', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('9', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('9', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999)
        ) - 1) AS 'LC Range', COUNT(*) AS "Count"
    FROM items
    GROUP BY date_format(items.dateaccessioned, '%M %Y'),
        SUBSTR(TRIM(items.itemcallnumber), 1, LEAST(
            IF( LOCATE(' ', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE(' ', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('0', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('0', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('1', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('1', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('2', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('2', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('3', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('3', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('4', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('4', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('5', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('5', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('6', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('6', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('7', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('7', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('8', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('8', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999),
            IF( LOCATE('9', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)) > 0, LOCATE('9', TRIM(items.itemcallnumber)), 999)
        ) - 1)

This will give you 'Month Added', 'LC Range', and 'Count'. Once you have
this, export it as a CSV file, which you can then open in Excel. Once in
Excel, select the data range, and insert a PivotTable. You'll want your
"Column Labels" to be the LC Range, the "Row Labels" to be the Month
Added, and the "Values" to be the Count. Once you add the Count to
"Values", click on it, and select "Value Field Settings..." to open a
dialog box. In that dialog box, select the "Show Values As" tab, and
then in the drop-down, select "Running Total In" and set the "Base
Field" to Month Added. Click "OK". If you want a graphical
representation of this data, now you just need to select "PivotChart"
and select a Line style (or whatever style you prefer).

### Comments ###

