---
title: "How to easily publish archived files as torrent"
layout: default
---
How to easily publish archived files as torrent
=====================
I'd like to provide an easy way to download archived files as torrents.
Right now we just put the archived files on an Apache web server where
they can be browsed and downloaded via HTTP.

I stumbled upon [terasaur](http://terasaur.org/) but could not find easy
information how to actually publish data with it.

Are there best practice guides on how to automatically create torrents
and make them available?

Jakob

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-collections</li><li class="tag">torrent</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I don't know about best practice guides (would be nice to see one that's
oriented to archives/libraries), but I've had good luck using
[btmakemetafile](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/btmakemetafile.bittornado.1.html)
which comes with the canonical [bittorrent](http://www.bittorrent.com)
client. It's a command line tool that takes a file or directory as the
first argument (the payload of the torrent), and a
[tracker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent_tracker) URL as the
second. The key here is the tracker URL, which is used to enable peers
to find each other.

A lot of torrent sharing websites essentially act as trackers, in
addition to being a catalog of available torrents. You can run your own
tracker if you want using
[bttrack](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/bttrack.bittornado.1.html),
or you can install a more friendly
[tracker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_BitTorrent_tracker_software)
for managing your collection. Another option is to use an [open
tracker](http://publicbt.org/), or to figure out how to create
trackerless torrents (they use a [distributed hash
table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_hash_table) behind the
scenes). I'm not sure how to coerece btmakemetafile into making a
trackerless torrent though, but I've heard it is possible depending on
the version.

I really like the [terasaur](http://terasaur.org/)'s idea of a curated
collection of torrents for the library/archives community. It would be
nice if the process for getting a collection hosted on there was a
little bit more transparent, if it enabled a community of curators, not
just torrent seeders. A nice side effect of uploading content to
Internet Archive and [Amazon
S3](http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/S3Torrent.html)
is that you get a torrent tracker for free. The Internet Archive torrent
files can be seen on one of the detail pages.

### Comments ###

