---
title : From where can you best source digital copies of artworks? (images, drawings, photos of things)
---
From where can you best source digital copies of artworks? (images, drawings, photos of things)
=====================
Currently I am required to take one "General Education" course which
also happens to be something related to "Art". Sadly, the course is more
about quantity of stuff, not about quality, i.e., we learn zero about
methods.

What we also didn't learn is how to source and find digital equivalents
or photographs of artworks. Now I am required to hand in a "slide
library" of pictures and drawings (not my own, but those discussed in
class - as well as stuff I collected from the www).

Even though it is not required, I don't want to totally let my academic
standards down, but try to actually learn something. Thus I would like
to know:

**From where and "how" might a library obtain digital equivalents of
existing paintings sourced on the www?**

Before the discussion explodes again about the question "cite" vs.
everything else: I only look for sources, not how to cite, I know how
to. I would welcome suggestions about art journals (if something like
this exists) or similar "authorities" in the field. (Because we *also*
didn't learn anything about this...)

grunwald2.0

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Hi grunwald, I edited your question down a bit, as questions on this
site should really be related to tools and techniques used by
professional librarians/information scientists and not general users of
the library. I think it may be useful to future users, though, so I made
it more general.
* grunwald2.0: Aha, cool, thanks for letting me know, one more elitist SE site. -.- So
where does the "user" of libraries or academic ask?! My question was
closed as "off-topic" on academia.SE!
* jonsca: Well, not elitism here, but topicality. I think as it is it's fine for
it to stay here, I just wanted to make it more general. I'm not sure
where "library user" questions would fit, honestly.
* grunwald2.0: Ok. Yep, that is a question that might need to be discussion in the meta
or academics.SE and libraries.SE ...
* jonsca: If you'd like to start a meta thread about it on Meta.Libraries, that
would be much appreciated.
* grunwald2.0: What I already found, is that museum websites could be the best, if I
consider the e.g. "Metropolitan Museum of Art" / "Heilbrunn Timeline of
Art History" as the standard. Unfortunately I assume (esp. concerning
Asian Art) that most other museum websites are not as navigable and
academically prepared...


Answer by mgkrebbs
----------------
Images of artwork can often be found on the website of the museum which
holds the particular item, but by far the best site for art images with
"open" copyright licences is [Wikimedia
Commons](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page).

There are various ways to find images there, but for your purposes you
may want to choose to browse via [available classification
categories](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category%3aArt), such as
"Art by period‎", "Art by movement‎", or "Art by location".

### Comments ###
* grunwald2.0: Thanks for the answer! I wish to add the question: And how "SHOULD" they
be found? As said, I did not only ask how to find the picture (if
everything else fails: Google Images! ;)) but where to properly / best
source (i.e. also cite) from. Not from a quality but \_academic\_ point
of view. i.e. \_IF\_ I would already knew which museum would hold those
pieces (I don't), I probably wouldn't ask the question. You understand
what I mean?...
* grunwald2.0: To amend this comment: I just noticed that I basically want / prefer a
"Google Scholar" for artworks, i.e. I'd like to search for artworks
directly, that lists the "museum" that holds the item in question.

Answer by Michael Hopwood
----------------
Have a search on [www.europeana.eu](http://www.europeana.eu) for
metadata of images contributed directly from the institutions which hold
the original.

Beware the idiosynchratic coverage, though; partly due to use of Dublin
Core and partly due to ad-hoc content development.

### Comments ###
* grunwald2.0: Wow, this is such a good idea. I even knew the website, but totally
forgot about it! Will try it out.

Answer by Alex
----------------
Margaret Vail Anderson, a librarian in Cortland, New York, has a website
where she has listed some great resources for finding digital images
online. I suggest you poke around her "art" information page and perhaps
contact her. In general I would say look at the institution which owns
the art image or the rights to it.

[http://www.digital-librarian.com/art.html](http://www.digital-librarian.com/art.html)

### Comments ###
* grunwald2.0: That is quite an extensive and nice resource! Thanks! :)

Answer by grunwald2.0
----------------
I just came across the "**NGA Images**" of the National Gallery of Art
(Washington, USA):

> NGA Images is a repository of digital images of the collections of the
> National Gallery of Art. On this website you can search, browse,
> share, and download images. A standards-based reproduction guide and a
> help section provide advice for both novices and experts. More than
> 22,000 open access digital images up to 3000 pixels each are available
> free of charge for download and use.

Hyperlink:
[https://images.nga.gov/en/page/show\_home\_page.html](https://images.nga.gov/en/page/show_home_page.html)

**Mission / Background ("About us"):**

> Open Access Policy for Images of Works of Art Presumed in the Public
> Domain
>
> With the launch of NGA Images, the National Gallery of Art implements
> an open access policy for digital images of works of art that the
> Gallery believes to be in the public domain. Images of these works are
> now available free of charge for any use, commercial or
> non-commercial.

and:

> The mission of the National Gallery of Art is to serve the United
> States of America in a national role by preserving, collecting,
> exhibiting, and fostering the understanding of works of art at the
> highest possible museum and scholarly standards.

### Comments ###

