---
title : What are the most important aspects of an organisational digital preservation strategy?
---
What are the most important aspects of an organisational digital preservation strategy?
=====================
What are the most important elements to consider in writing an
organisational or corporate digital preservation strategy?

By organisational or corporate, I mean a strategy that goes beyond the
technical issues and puts digital preservation into the broader
organisational context in which it must be delivered.

mopennock

### Comments ###
* Bill Lefurgy: Are we considering a policy rather than a strategy? To me a policy is a
top-level authority/directive, while a strategy outlines the means to
implement the policy.
* mopennock: A strategy, though it's possible to combine the two (e.g. as done by the
National Library of Wales
http://www.llgc.org.uk/fileadmin/documents/pdf/2008\_digipres.pdf)


Answer by ruebot
----------------
I recently put together a digital preservation strategy document for my
organization that pulled heavily from the [Scholars Portal TDR audit
documents](http://www.ocul.on.ca/node/97).

The strategy outlined:

-   Digital Preservation Inventory
-   Digital Preservation Systematic Assessment
-   Digital Preservation Strategic Plan
-   Digital Preservation Implementation Plan
-   Digital Preservation Access Policy
-   Digital Preservation Designated Community
-   Digital Preservation Rights Policy

**Inventory**: a rigorous inventory of the organization's current
infrastructure, and digital objects (scope).

**Systematic Assessment**: examines current and potential digital
library platforms, providing a summary of each, and noteworthy concerns
and/or issues.

**Strategic Plan**: outlines the digital preservation strategy for the
organization to ensure continued access to its digital collections by
the Designated Community.

**Implementation Plan**: defines preservation strategies used on
organizationally created digital objects

**Preservation Access Policy**: defines the level to which access will
be provided to preservation objects.

**Designated Community** defines the organization's, secondary, and
tertiary communities for long term access to digitally preserved
materials.

**Rights Policy**: defines the transformation (function of copyright -
the authorization to migrate an object from an obsolete format) right
that must be acquired from content providers in order to provide the
full realization of the Digital Preservation Strategy.

(Big thanks to OCUL for the great resource!)

### Comments ###

Answer by Steve M
----------------
IMO, the most important element of digital preservation strategy is a
**clear** link to organizational mandate. If your strategy isn't
directly addressing specific pieces of your organization's overall
mandate/mission/general strat plan, it can always be discarded in the
interest of expediency, and that is very bad for preservation planning.

### Comments ###

Answer by Bill Lefurgy
----------------
A digital preservation policy should establish the institutional
foundation for stewarding digital material. It should guide
decision-making in all areas with the intent to bring about a stated
purpose (e.g., “provide for enduring care of and access to digital
collections”). The top management of the institution should approve the
policy, which will serve to express official commitment to pursue a
well-defined course of action. Specific implementation of actions,
technology, practices, standards and otoperational details should
ideally be governed by separate guidance that flows from the policy.

Some of the major elements of a policy include:

-   Purpose statement
-   Organizational mandate to collect and maintain digital materials
-   Explanation how digital stewardship serves to meet institutional
    mission and benefits the institution’s constituency
-   Roles and responsibilities within the organization, including
    governance and accountability
-   Operating principl or basic assumptions (e.g., “follow community
    standards and best practices;” “ensure that digital materials under
    stewardship are inventoried and are recoverable;” “adopt a life
    cycle approach to management”)
-   Risk assessment and preservation actions/levels (degrees of
    processing/care and criteria for selection, such as value,
    vulnerability, demand; this can include a statement about a minimal
    level of processing or “essential steps”)
-   A glossary of terms (either a specific list for the insn better, a
    link to an existing external glossary).

[Facing Off with Digital Preservation
Policy](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2011/07/facing-off-with-digital-preservation-policy/)
is a 2011 blog post that summarizes a number of published policies from
some major preserving institutions around the world. For a few specific
examples, see [Establishing a Digital Preservation
Policy](http://www.jiscdigitalmedia.ac.uk/crossmedia/advice/establishing-a-digital-preservation-policy)
from JISC Digital Media and the University of Michigan [ICPSR Digital
Preservation Policy
Framework](http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/icpsrweb/content/datamanagement/preservation/policies/dpp-framework.html).
The [Digital Preservation
Strategy](http://archives.govt.nz/advice/government-digital-archive-programme/digital-preservation-strategy/digital-preservation-strat)
from Archives New Zealand and Library New Zealand is instructive; so is
the [NEDCC Digital Preservation Policy
Template](http://www.nedcc.org/resources/soda/downloads/SoDAExerciseToolkit.pdf).

Useful principles can be found in [Trustworthy Repositories Audit &
Certification: Criteria and
Checklist](http://www.crl.edu/sites/default/files/attachments/pages/trac_0.pdf),
as well as
[DRAMBORA](http://www.dcc.ac.uk/resources/repository-audit-and-assessment/drambora)
(Digital Repository Audit Method Based On Risk Assessment).

### Comments ###

Answer by Tibaut Houzanme
----------------
This is an interesting topic.

I am sure some of the following overlap with what is said above.

In my experience the most important aspects of strategy with regard to
digital preservation are the following, in order of importance:

**1 HUMAN RESOURCES** (Quality and passionate professionals who will go
above and beyond and will even anticipate the changes and adapt early
before disaster -- obsolescence, risk -- strikes.)

**2 COMMITMENT** (Organizational commitment is critical to
institution-wide awareness, care and action -- along with staff, user
involvement and consultation.)

**3 RECORDS SCOPES** (A clearly defined intellectual, moral and physical
extent of the records will guide the appraisal process AND the
selection/deselection of what matters/doesn't matter.)

**4 PROTECTION** (Clearly defined plans for protecting the records from
all risks will enable the digital continuity of the records, which is
the outcome the strategy is designed to ensure. Protection involves
content, context, media, movements, access, malware, software, rights,
etc.)

**5 STANDARDS** (The proven, well reasoned or documented theories and
practices that guide appraisal, selection, description, storage, access,
protection and maintenance of the records. This has a great deal of
influence over their digital continuity.)

**6 OTHER RESOURCES** (Apart from the human resources singled out above
as the number one strategic choice or advantage, other resources cover
proper staff retention and technical infrastructures as well as access
to state of the art research or literature to maintain the
sustainability of the records' digital continuity.)

**7 DOCUMENTATION** (Knowledge -- especially knowledge that explains the
why/how/when/where/whom/what expectation of the record -- whether
human-shared or recorded in metadata or other processes, is the
essential ingredient in all aspects of the digital object's life. Should
unforeseen circumstances lead to disaster, recovery at best and
understanding at worst will rely on documentation to make a case for the
sustainability, economics, or wisdom of letting go of those losses.)

Those are my 2 cents to the discussion on important aspects of a digital
preservation strategy.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: @walker Perfect, and thanks for your continued efforts! Just grab the
signature at the end, too.

