---
title: "Protect library from morning sunlight"
layout: default
---
Protect library from morning sunlight
=====================
In the morning (more often in summer), from 7AM to 9AM my books get
almost direct sunlight.

Is there any solution to this problem other than just:

-   Enhance the bookshelf with some sort of polarized glass (in the form
    of glass doors).
-   Just move the bookshelf away from the place where it gets morning
    sunlight.


Nicolás

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Home libraries are technically off-topic here, so I made some minor
changes to make the question more widely applicable.
* Nicolás: Well made @jonsca. I didn't know that...


Answer by Joe
----------------
You may want to look into a concept of 'passive solar' architecture. A
common solution for this would be some sort of planting outside that is
of the height so that it blocks the sunlight in the early morning, but
allows it to come through when the sun's higher in the sky. This is
particularly useful for problems in the summer time, as it'll shield the
house from light, but when the leaves die back in the winter it'll let
more light through.

You can also use window screens to limit the total amount of light that
comes through the windows (possibly only partial decorative screens that
cover the upper or lower portion of the windows; I've seen the lower
ones used to shield house plants from too much sunlight). You could use
this in conjunction with the plantings, if there were some areas that
hadn't yet filled in their foliage.

A third option would be some sort of louvered screen that would allow
light through when the sun was higher in the sky, but block it when it's
at lower angles.

### Comments ###

Answer by Kathleen Kanarski
----------------
I highly recommend solar shades. These are roll shades, like the
traditional ones, but are made of special fabric which blocks heat and a
lot of the light which damages your books. Since the damage to your
collection seems to be happening early in the morning, before opening
(?), make putting down the shades part of the closing duties for your
staff. Those opening the next morning can raise the shades before
opening the doors to your public.

### Comments ###

