---
title : Converting BagIt files to WARC
---
Converting BagIt files to WARC
=====================
In Italy, for an ongoing experiment of digital legal deposit, national
libraries are receiving `bagit` files from publishers (usually harvested
from their own FTP or HTTP sites).

The idea is to convert these bags into WARC and store in a common
repository of web archives (accessed with the Wayback Machine).

How do you suggest this would be best managed?

The ideal solution should be the [RESTful bag
server](https://github.com/acdha/restful-bag-server) exposing the bag
content and crawling it with Heritrix 3.

In the meantime of not having an implementation of the bag server, we
could unpack the bag in a static web server (with a stable URL), give it
some namespace, and later crawl it.

Another idea could be reading the entries of the bag and [make a
warc](http://warc.readthedocs.org/en/latest/#writing-warc-file) with
[warc: Python library to work with WARC
files](https://github.com/internetarchive/warc).

According to the [warc
specs](http://archive-access.sourceforge.net/warc/warc_file_format-0.9.html#anchor22)
a resource can be any URI. Is it safe to give it a URL or is better to
use something like an **urn**?

Furthermore, do you know if Wayback deals with resources that are not
URLs?

raffaele messuti

### Comments ###


Answer by Morgan Johnson
----------------
Scalable WARC manipulation API, "WSDK":
[http://webarchivingbucket.com/](http://webarchivingbucket.com/)

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: Could you give a few more details as to why this answers the question?
As it stands it is likely to be removed.

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
I'm not convinced that bundling all sorts into WARC files is a terribly
good idea. We do this in the case where the resources are on the web but
for some reason we need to transfer the content directly as files rather
than download it all from the site (e.g. large content or servers that
are difficult to crawl). However, even in this case, migration to WARC
is awkward and error prone, because to rebuild the http playback you
need to accurately mock up the server headers. Little things, like
getting the MIME type right for formats that are hard to identify
automatically like CSS and JavaScript, cause us a lot of headaches.

Therefore, the idea of taking files that were never on the web and
mocking up the entire think make me very nervous! I would not be
comfortable discarding the BagIt SIP because you are taking files out
and discarding and filesystem metadata and the original inventory etc.
and your QA procedure will need to be very tight, up to and including
verifying playback via Wayback. I'm pretty sure that, by default,
Wayback won't support arbitrary URNs, and therefore you'll have a lot of
setup to do.

What's wrong with just keeping the bag anyway? Can't this all be tested
out for a while as an access layer first? i.e. transform the bag content
on access but keep the SIP as your AIP for now?

### Comments ###
* raffaele messuti: i agree with everything, nothing is wrong with bagit itself, the idea is
motivated because we like a lot the wayback model as DIP as it solves
the problem of having another identifier (everything is URL) and deals
fine with versioning. btw we are keeping the bags until we find a better
solution. thanks.

