---
title: "What characteristics of the Qidenius Book Scanner would benefit a library with a collection of our size?"
layout: default
---
What characteristics of the Qidenius Book Scanner would benefit a library with a collection of our size?
=====================
We want to scan a library with about 30,000 Books.

For that purpose we think about purchasing the Qidenius book scanner.
What characteristics of the Qidenius Book Scanner would benefit a
library with a collection of our size?

ChrisZZ

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digitization</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Could you reformulate this into a "what characteristics of this
particular product would benefit a library with a collection of our
size"? As of right now it's just asking for experiences, which are
impossible to evaluate as correct or not.
* ChrisZZ: Okay - how can I reopen this question?
* jonsca: All set. You can flag anything that you think will need to be reopened
as well.
* jonsca: I edited out the polling for experiences, but if people happen to share
them as part of their answer, it's probably okay.


Answer by cneud
----------------
Make sure the acquisition is really justified in terms of volume and
ROI, and consider also renting or out-sourcing - 30.000 volumes suddenly
looks much smaller when looking at the maximum throughput of a high-end
[scanrobot](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVtwIWfh7KA). The actual
throughput that can be obtained through automation depends a lot on the
kind of source material and the ready availability of human operators or
"supervisors" though.

Thus the key question really is how suitable the source material in the
library is for such an automated process - for example with regards to
age, fragility and value, size and variations therein, etc. The bottom
line is: the more heterogeneous the collection in physical
characteristics, the less likely you are to benefit from the use of a
scanrobot.

While from 2008,
[this](http://www.southampton.ac.uk/library/bopcris/documents/Automated-Book-Scanners-Munich-2008.pdf)
concise report from Julian Hall on the Munich Scan Robot Days still
provides a helpful overview of the automated scanrobots currently
available on the market.

### Comments ###
* ChrisZZ: We are in Ethiopia, so outsourcing or renting is unlikely. Also our
source-material is not very fragile, as it is not an old library. We
have mostly standard-books and readers. Also we got a very nice offer
for an equipment, that was used already for a fair (2 month) with 50%
price reduction. We would never be able to pay the full price.

