---
title: "How to view MARC files in a human readable way?"
layout: default
---
How to view MARC files in a human readable way?
=====================
How does one view MARC files in a human readable way?

What characteristics should I look for in a tool that would facilitate
the interpretation of MARC records?

Having to look up every field in the [MARC
specification](http://www.loc.gov/marc/) is rather awkward.

PHPst

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">software</li><li class="tag">circulation</li><li class="tag">marc</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This question closed this question as off topic before. In its current
state, it is an off topic question. Deleting it and asking it again
unfortunately doesn't make it a better fit. Please read [this blog
post](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/11/qa-is-hard-lets-go-shopping)
for more information on how you could improve this question for possible
re-opening.
* Paul Wheatley: The rather clumsy closure of this question has caused a lot of
consternation and in some cases abandonment of using Stack LIS at a time
when we are trying to generate support for using it. [Eg. this
exchange.](https://twitter.com/GaryM03062/status/281485882920431616). I
do not think this is a "shopping question". It's a user looking for help
with a particular process issue, where the solution will by definition
involve software. It is not a "which is best" or "what shall I buy"
question. Answers to this question would be useful for the LIS
community. In my view it is very much "on topic".
* jonsca: I'm not sure how closing a question is "rude", it's a process designed
to block a question from getting an answer before it's "ready" for one.
It was closed for a reason. That being said, I've edited to a more
acceptable form for SE, which will make it applicable to a wider
audience and less locked into a particular time period.
* jonsca: There is nothing against software tools, there is a provision against
shopping recommendations, as a site clogged with those is not going to
contain any useful information years later. I understand your
frustration, but I hope you understand mine.
* jonsca: I have cleared the comments not to be spiteful, but because they
wandered too far off of the topic of the question. If anyone has
anything they'd like to air, I would invite them to start a
Meta.Libraries topic about it.
* eclecticlibrarian: What part of the MARC record are you trying to make more human-readable?
That might help with answering your question.


Answer by anarchivist
----------------
I haven't personally seen an ILS-agnostic application that provides
useful crossreferences to MARC specifications within the user interface.
Some cataloging applications (e.g. those that are part of an ILS, or
OCLC Connexion) do, but that presumes that you'll be using that system
to do your cataloging. For example, see the [Koha documentation on their
cataloging
module](http://manual.koha-community.org/3.2/en/cataloging.html#addbibrec).

Honestly, your best option is to use something like
[MarcEdit](http://people.oregonstate.edu/~reeset/marcedit/html/index.php)
and have the specs open in a browser if you're not doing cataloging.

### Comments ###

