---
title: "Features to consider for archival scanners?"
layout: default
---
Features to consider for archival scanners?
=====================
My town has just started up a historic committee to collect and preserve
historical documents and information.

We're starting to collect papers, books, maps, pictures, etc, but we're
trying to determine what we should get in the way of scanning equipment
to digitize the items.

As we expect the materials to trickle in, we'd like to return them back
to the citizens in a timely manner and don't want to go the route of
renting higher-end scanners, but would prefer something of decent
quality that could do the bulk of the digitization.

Are there certain features that we should look for? Would a flatbed
scanner be recommended, or is there something better to deal with maps
and other large items?

Joe

### Comments ###


Answer by Epicentre
----------------
I would think that the first criteria to consider are maximum size of
document and colour capability. You probably must have colour if you
want to scan maps and pictures, and even A3 is going to be inadequate
for most maps. I suggest that you split the scanning into two sections.
1 - standard A4 (or possibly A3) black/white/grey-scale (possibly
colour) for routine jobs and 2 - large items that cannot be scanned on
the above equipment. The second group will be outsourced.

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
It is a bit of a long read, but I would suggest someone take a look at
[Technical Guidelines for Digitizing Cultural Heritage Materials:
Creation of Raster Image Master
Files](http://www.digitizationguidelines.gov/guidelines/FADGI_Still_Image-Tech_Guidelines_2010-08-24.pdf).
It's a very handy reference work for informing scanning decisions.

It is probably a good idea to think a bit about what you imagine
spending most of your time doing. If you are going to be doing a lot of
books, it might be better to think about getting some digital cameras
and setting up a book scanning station. For example, see [this nice
instructable on setting up a DIY book
scanner](http://www.instructables.com/id/DIY-High-Speed-Book-Scanner-from-Trash-and-Cheap-C/).
If you imagine primarily working with loose materials (photographs,
letters, etc.) then you can likely use a rather inexpensive USB scanner.
If you think there is going to be a fair bit of large or irregular sized
items it might be worth looking at much larger bed scanners, but in that
case it might similarly be in your best interest to just purchase some
cheap lighting, a decent digital camera, and a tripod.

### Comments ###

