---
title: "Are volume numbers on article citations reliable? Are they predictable?"
layout: default
---
Are volume numbers on article citations reliable? Are they predictable?
=====================
Scientific journal articles usually appear in one dedicated issue of a
journal. There are cases they are split over more than one issue, too.
In citation, this is referred to as issue number.

Aside from the issue number, there often is a volume number in articles’
citations, too. I know that libraries employ bookbinders who tie the
incoming issues of a journal together into volumes. But: Are there rules
on how many issues go into a volume? With other bibliographic
information given, can the volumnumber be calculated algorithmically? Or
is it proposed by the publishers and, if so, do libraries follow these
proposals? If not, a volume number might rather be useless and even
misleading if someone wants to find the article you cite in a library
different from your own.

If there are rules, what are those rules? If not, why is a volume number
included in the citation at all? In that case it would seem advisable
better *not* to include the volume number in a citation at all.

Paramaeleon

### Comments ###
* Joe: I remember looking into some journal that I had never heard of that was
in its 12th volume, so we wondered how it could go 12 years without us
hearing about it -- then it turned out that they were assigning new
volumes each quarter (for a quarterly publication, with each issue
numbered 1), so you really can't say anything about it, other than to
hope that title+volume+issue uniquely identifies a publication.


Answer by Epicentre
----------------
The volume number is given by the publishers. However, going back to
your title - "Are volume numbers on article citations reliable?" - I
would have to say not 100%. There are many miscitings around, to say
nothing of some journals being downright confusing with their numbering.
Many journals have several volumes a year, so a year alone would be
insufficient. The year/volume/issue/page normally defines an item. Less
than that frequently would not.

### Comments ###

