---
title: "What is the difference between digital preservation and digital curation?"
layout: default
---
What is the difference between digital preservation and digital curation?
=====================
In the United States use of the term "digital preservation" seems
dominant, while "digital curation" seems to be dominant in the United
Kingdom. Do these terms entail fundamentally different activities?

Thomas Padilla

### Comments ###


Answer by AaronC
----------------
"**Digital curation**" is a term which reflects a holistic approach for
managing digital assets and includes activities that span the
"lifecycle" of a digital object: selection, collection, preservation,
maintenance, access, long term archiving, and stewarding digital assets
over time. The holistic approach to managing digital assets can be seen
as a "value chain" in which the individual activities performed under
the banner of digital curation each improve and synergistically produce
gains in value of the digital assets and collections.

"**Digital preservation**" is a specific activity within the digital
curation lifecycle which is concerned with the long term management and
maintenance of digital assets. Digital preservation can be broken down
into risks associated with: disk level preservation risks, bit level
preservation risks, and function level preservation risks.

-   Major *disk level* preservation risks include hardware failure, disk
    array redundancy (e.g. RAID), backup scheduling, permissions,
    geographic distribution, network bottlenecks and other hardware &
    network associated challenges.

-   Major *bit level* preservation risks include bit rot, bit flipping,
    fixity-checking, content fidelity, file formats, virus-checking,
    among other file and bit level challenges.

-   Major *functional level* preservation risks include file and
    software obsolescence, format migration, reformatting & refreshing
    content, and other challenges associated with preserving the
    original utility and use of the digital assets.



### Comments ###
* dsalo: I entirely agree with the above distinction... but I also note that many
use the terms interchangeably.

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
The trick here is that digital curation has also become a term for
creating a feed of digital content. See the [curator's
code](http://www.curatorscode.org/), and any number things about
[tumbler as
curation](http://showstudio.com/blog/post/susannah_frankel_dissects_rei_nadals_tumblr_curation_in_a_new_essay),
about [pintrest as
curation](http://gigaom.com/2012/01/04/you-are-what-you-curate-why-pinterest-is-hawt/),
and about the general idea of [curatorial
media](http://thesocietypages.org/cyborgology/tag/curatorial-media/).

One of the risks with using the term digital curation is that it is
rapidly becoming a term that means very little. If you say preservation
people get that you are talking about the long haul, if you say digital
curation I think folks are likely going to think of [brain
pickings](http://www.brainpickings.org/).

The other term I would throw in the mix that has seen some traction is
"digital stewardship." One of my colleagues wrote a [nice post working
through issues with each of these
terms](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2011/08/digital-preservation-digital-curation-digital-stewardship-what%E2%80%99s-in-some-names/).
I tend to like "stewardship" over "curation" as stewardship carries with
it a mixture of care about the present and care about the future.

I think the key thing here is that these terms mean different things to
different people and it is important to think about who you are talking
to.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jefferson Bailey
----------------
The terminology is slippery, as we all admit, but another problem is
that "curation" has a specific, pre-existing meaning in the museum (and
larger cultural heritage) context -- one which has little to nothing to
do with long-term preservation. That, to me, is largely why its
appropriation is problematic. In most organizations, conservators not
curators are responsible for the ongoing preservation of artifacts.

In the digital realm, conservation & preservation have become
interchangeable. But curators, traditionally, are responsible for
selection, arrangement, interpretation, exhibition, blahblahblah, but
not conservation. So to use the term "curation" as though it implies
preservation is misleading or at least an alteration of meaning no
different than those that use it to mean aggregating cool links.

### Comments ###

