---
title: "What examples are there of digitization projects using OMR?"
layout: default
---
What examples are there of digitization projects using OMR?
=====================
[Optical Music
Recognition](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_music_recognition) is
a like OCR but for recognizing musical notation. Are there any libraries
using this as part of digitization projects? It strikes me that this
could provide incredibly valuable data. For example, allowing viewers of
digitized sheet music to play MIDI files of material, or to search for
music with a given chord in it. With that said, I haven't heard of many
projects that are using this sort of technology in production
environments. So, are their examples of libraries using this tech? If
so, I would love to hear how they are and to what ends.

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">metadata</li><li class="tag">digitization</li><li class="tag">ocr</li><li class="tag">music</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by cneud
----------------
From when I was still working at the Bavarian State Library I remember
that in the Virtual Library of Musicology project ([Vifa
Musik](http://www.vifamusik.de/home.html?L=1)) OMR was applied as part
of the workflow - I think the Capella software was being used at the
time (around 2008/09). I do even recall that MIDI files were indeed
derived from the OMR, but upon a quick check on the Vifa Musik website,
there seems to be no feature (yet?) that would confirm this.

The Digital Music Archives and Libraries Lab at McGill university is
another example of use of OMR in a library/digitization context, and
they also have a page dedicated to it:
[http://ddmal.music.mcgill.ca/research/omr](http://ddmal.music.mcgill.ca/research/omr)

(I had to remove some links because of insufficient reputation, but I'm
sure you can find all this via Google too).

### Comments ###
* jonsca: If you place the links in comments, flag the post and I'll edit them in
for you (you may be able to put them in yourself at this point, you have
sufficient reputation now).

Answer by Sue Manus
----------------
Check out ISMIR (www.ismir.net/), the music information retrieval
international collaboration. They have folks working on OMR projects
from time to time. They also have a listserv.

### Comments ###

