---
title: "What is the reasoning behind creating Makerspaces in Libraries?"
layout: default
---
What is the reasoning behind creating Makerspaces in Libraries?
=====================
There is a good bit of interest in creating
[Makerspaces](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackerspace) in libraries. It
seems like a significant departure from the role of libraries as places
that offer access to knowledge and information to be places where folks
make things.

I would be curious to know how libraries are justifying why they should
have Makerspaces in them?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Libraries have been involved in participatory learning for a long time -
think about visiting authors that allow you to ask questions about how
they write, computer classes where you sit at a computer and apply what
is being taught, book clubs where folks share responsibility for the
discussions, and reference sessions where librarians teach people how to
find information on their own. The Makerspace is an extension of this as
well as the fairly traditional role of the library as a community space.
In a Makerspace, knowledge and skills are shared democratically across
age groups. The library serves as physical resource, materials resource,
as moderator, and perhaps also as teacher.

Having said that, it is not a match for every library's mission, and it
also dilutes a library's focus. We do so much already, and to keep
adding things on our plates means we probably do all things less well.
For some libraries, it may be an attempt to be more relevant to an
otherwise disinterested community - like gaming, which was about getting
kids into the library where they might discover the other cool things we
do, and making the library a place were kids feel comfortable coming so
that they might come back for other reasons in the future.

I personally think it's a trend, and like gaming, it will be attempted
and then replaced in many libraries, surviving in the few where the
community really takes an interest. I think in the library world, we
have a tendency to jump on to new ideas because other libraries are
doing them instead of really looking at what our community is asking
for. I don't think it is a match for my community any more than gaming
was.

I do see a need in my community for community engagement, however.
People come into the library to connect with other people - the staff,
the volunteers, the other people in our various programs. They come into
the library to learn, and they enjoy being introduced to new subjects
and ideas. I don't think the idea of a Makerspace is outside of our
mission, I just don't think it is a fit for this particular community.

PLA has a webinar that might be of interest
[here](http://www.ala.org/pla/onlinelearning/webinars/ondemand/makerspaces).
There is an interesting defense of makerspaces
[here](http://7hillsmake.org/2012/03/04/makerspaces-why-now-why-bother/)
as something a community needs (but not necessarily attached to a
library).

### Comments ###
* Mary Jo Finch: American Libraries Jan/Feb issue has an interesting article on the
subject. It suggests that makerspaces stem from the historical
partnership between libraries and craftspeople (think quilt groups).
According to the article, Makerspaces are ideally partnerships with tech
groups that offer expertise, and what the library brings to the equation
is a community space and perhaps some purchasing power (eg, we provide
the \$3000 3D printer that folks in our community are not likely to
afford on their own). The article also offers a helpful list of
resources.
* Mary Jo Finch: Just read "A Whole New Mind" by Daniel Pink, in which he argues that
just as the information age supplanted the industrial age, the concept
age is now supplanting the information age. We outsourced industrial
jobs, now we outsource white collar jobs. Our future economy relies on a
workforce that can think conceptually - Makerspaces build those skills.

Answer by edwardiglesias
----------------
We have been looking at a Makerspace here at Central Connecticut State
University. It is a no-brainer as far as I'm concerned for a Public
Library to offer this. At an Academic Library it makes sense as well but
is perhaps in need of a little selling. Users are already using our
libraries to create things (articles, research papers, podcasts...) and
it stands to reason many of them will want to create in three
dimensions. Just as there was a debate over whether we needed to provide
students with laser printers to print out resumes this is the next
logical step of providing 3D printing. Libraries that do not provide
what their communities want are by definition useless and should be
closed as a waste of money. I believe this is something our community
wants. By all means test this at your location. Have a Maker Fair.
Sponsor an event. See if this is something your users want. That should
define your mission not the other way around.

### Comments ###

Answer by denten
----------------
[Here is a
link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fV9iNRkEgoGC3zX19jz7bzBM4CJn6l_E7D4Fw32kAzM/edit)
to a document we drafted in support of the library studio at Columbia
University. To quote from it:

"Life in the library increasingly requires the use of communal,
unstructured space. Hackathons, THATcamps, meetups, workshops, and open
labs--these emerging models of getting together, sharing knowledge, and
getting things done have their local constituency, which up until now
exists as a vibrant but fractured (and homeless) community on Columbia’s
Morningside campus.

We believe that the library collections are the natural playground for
digital humanists, computational social scientists, open-source
advocates, library activists, close and distant readers. As catalog and
periodical reading rooms are phased out in favor of Google groups and
computer labs, we think it is important to preserve a neutral, flexible
space for experimentation in the humanities."

Its likely that the Studio will be opening this summer. Hope that helps!

### Comments ###

Answer by KelliW
----------------
Have you seen *[The Making of Maker
Spaces](http://www.thedigitalshift.com/2012/10/public-services/the-makings-of-maker-spaces-part-1-space-for-creation-not-just-consumption/)*,
the 3-part series that appeared in The Digital Shift (Library Journal)
last fall? It looks at different flavours of maker spaces, the role of
the community, and outcomes from maker spaces.

### Comments ###

