---
title: "Does MODS provide a way of recording missing information?"
layout: default
---
Does MODS provide a way of recording missing information?
=====================
In many MODS records harvested from several sources, I see
`<mods:publisher>s.n.</mods:publisher>` or something similar (worst I
have seen: `000NOPUBLISHER000`) to indicate the publisher is unknown or
that there is no 'official' publisher. For unknown information, I think
leaving elements out makes sense. However, for information known to be
missing, something else may work better. For example, for the place of
production, [RDA (or at least the draft from
2008)](http://archive.org/details/ResourceDescriptionAccessrdaDraftNov.2008)
ยง2.7.2.6 specifies

> If neither a known nor a probable local place or country, state,
> province, etc., of production can be determined, record *Place of
> production not identified.*

Are there special field values (perhaps "unknown") or structural
elements (perhaps an attribute `unknown="true"`) to indicate 'this value
is known to be missing'/'not identified'?

(Edit: added RDA example.)

Ben Companjen

### Comments ###
* Ben Companjen: BTW, I joined the MODS mailinglist after my question here, and posted
the question (with a link to here) on January 10, 2013.


Answer by anarchivist
----------------
I don't think there would a way to express this in MODS. MODS is a data
structure standard, and having a consistent manner of representing
"missing" data is more the domain of a data content standard.

### Comments ###
* Ben Companjen: I think you're right that there is no way to consistently represent data
missing in MODS, but much (if not all) of the data structure follows
from the content it needs to represent. I've seen a discussion on the
MODS list about representing "et al." as a special 'name', which also
touches on the distinction between content and structure. There's
probably a lot more to discuss in this area.

