---
title: "What different kinds of ways are libraries using Twitter?"
layout: default
---
What different kinds of ways are libraries using Twitter?
=====================
I am curious to hear about as many different kinds of uses libraries are
finding for Twitter, ideally with links to some exemplars for different
kinds of uses. I've seen libraries using Twitter for outreach, to answer
reference questions, to notify existing patrons of events, but I would
be interested to know more broadly what kinds of categories of use
libraries are finding for Twitter.

As a side question, if there are any guides of publications on the
effectiveness of different uses of Twitter by libraries I would be
interested in that information as well.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Flimzy: Sounds like a list question.


Answer by dsalo
----------------
I'll point to two local examples:

-   [@UWDigiCollec](https://twitter.com/#!/uwdigicollec) tweets
    interesting items from the UW Digital Collections. They've attracted
    local media attention and made fast friends with University
    Communications (which loves the old campus photos) and other campus
    entities-with-power. The happy-go-lucky voice attracts a lot of
    followers, as do themed "tweetdowns" with the Wisconsin Historical
    Society.
-   [@IArtLibraries](https://twitter.com/#!/iartlibraries) is a group of
    three artists and librarians (just graduated!) working on increasing
    connections between artists and libraries. Their Twitter is a
    straightforward publicity/connection play, but they do it extremely
    well.

See also [Emily Lloyd's observations on public-library Twitter
accounts](http://shelfcheck.blogspot.com/2012/04/some-notes-on-tweeting-for-public.html).

### Comments ###

Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I think there may be fun experiments to use Twitter as a communication
mechanism for automated processes in libraries, digital repositories,
etc.

For example I wrote [paperbot](http://github.com/edsu/paperbot) as an
experiment to use the [Chronicling America
API](http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/about/api/) to announce headlines
from 100 years ago today on Twitter as the
[paperbot](http://twitter.com/paperbot) user. It also will announce when
new batches of historic newspaper data have been loaded like
[this](https://twitter.com/paperbot/status/196531785918726144). The OCR
is kind of messy, so the low follower count reflects how interesting
this really is :-)

Another perhaps more radical example perhaps was Harvard's
[LibraryLab](http://librarylab.law.harvard.edu/) that had a project to
announced circulation statistics in realtime on Twitter using a bot. But
I think it got shutdown because of privacy concerns. I imagine it
might've been fairly easy to get rate limited by Twitter if the
circulation traffic was high. I'm having trouble finding references to
this project on the Web right now for some reason.

The idea of [giftcasting](http://www.webisteme.com/blog/?p=898) seems
like it might have some application in the library/archives space, but
I'm still trying to connect those dots :-)

I think it also might be interesting to monitor who tweets about your
stuff, by using the Twitter API to monitor when someone posts a link to
a website property you manage. As a proof of concept I created an app
that did this for Wikipedia called
[wikitweets](http://wikitweets.herokuapp.com/), which turned out to be
mildly entertaining. I think it could potentially be a good way of
seeing how various groups of people use your content.

### Comments ###

Answer by Matt
----------------
I work in a high school library and am not currently using twitter but
have thought about it. The most obvious use is to publicize speakers and
or programs that we have going on. The other option we are considering
is just a way of letting sutdents know when hot books have come back to
the library. In other words something like catching fire has been
returned. We are considering that but have issues with sutdents using
twitter in school to follow us.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: I can see some hesitation on a students part to follow the library on
twitter. By following, it allows the admin of the twitter account to see
their tweets. If I was using twitter as teenager, I'm not sure I would
want to follow someone that could get me in trouble if I tweet the
"wrong thing" (according to administration at the school). This is a
case where I think facebook would be much more effective for reaching
students. Though, if I am ignorant to some kind of privacy feature on
twitter that would make this argument null, please let me know!
* Matt: Interesting. Like I said I do not use it and had no idea this would be
an issue. I will need to look into it.
* Jennifer Arnott: @KatieR - Twitter actually has an option for protecting a Twitter stream
for those who wish. That said, just because someone follows an account
(i.e. a student following a library's account) doesn't mean the library
has to follow them back. That's something that can be handled with a
clear policy at the school level. (And it's useful not just for Twitter,
but all the other online spaces we use.) [Twitter's
site](https://support.twitter.com/articles/14016) has more about the
Twitter settings side.
* Gene Golovchinsky: @KatieR Twitter has a pretty good scheme with respect to visibility of
tweets: unless you protect your account all your tweets are publicly
accessible; following is asymetrical: if you follow me, you see my
(public) tweets, but if I don't reciprocate, I don't see your's (by
default). Of course I can always look to see what you had to say
publicly. So from this perspective, there is no issue about a library
tweeting to the school's students.

Answer by ranti
----------------
[@msulibraries](https://twitter.com/msulibraries) tweets various things.
The bulk of the content is from the RSS feeds (flickr, youtube, library
news, information from branch libraries, and soon to be blurbs from our
Information Literacy unit.) We also have mutual understanding with
several campus units to support each other by tweeting
institution-related cultural events. And there are tweets from the staff
interacting with the followers as well about anything that might
interest the community.

### Comments ###

Answer by Sam K
----------------
We tweet upcoming events and items of interest but the way we use
Twitter differently than HTML/RSS is to spark conversations. It's not
the only goal but it's a big one.

Since our twitter account is (wo)manned by several people using a
management tool and we do have back-and-forth discussion via twitter
we're considering 'signing' tweets. -- Patrons have begun to ask who
they're talking to.

Not sure if we will decide to do it but one idea is to use initials
(-sk) in tweets and to periodically retweet a link to a profiles page.

### Comments ###

Answer by user130
----------------
We tweet about our events, hours, when a new video from an event is
posted online, do \#fridayreads, and \#FF. Though recently someone has
started to harass us, but that's not here or there...

### Comments ###

Answer by Abby Bedford
----------------
I'm actually currently doing a study with a colleague of mine about the
effectiveness of twitter in academic libraries in the U.S. Keep your
eyes peeled for an article in the coming year.

### Comments ###

Answer by Brian Herzog
----------------
Like other people, we use Twitter to promote events, but I wanted to
repeat this because we're using [TwitterFeed](http://twitterfeed.com/)
to automatically pull events from our calendar RSS feed and send them to
Twitter a few days before the event. We also use the same tool to
automatically pull our blog posts too.

Also, we have a second twitter feed to easily put announcements on our
homepage ([more
info](http://www.swissarmylibrarian.net/2009/04/14/be-careful-what-you-tweet-for/)).
Instead of having to log into our webserver and manually update the
homepage, which can be difficult if we close unexpectedly due to a storm
or power outage or something, this second Twitter account lets us easily
update the homepage from home.

### Comments ###

Answer by Amy
----------------
@diglib411 We provide information about digital preservation history and
issues. We see it as an extension of our in-house services and a way to
connect with the public about digital preservation and disaster
readiness.

### Comments ###

Answer by aarontay
----------------
Besides what others have mentioned such as autopulling in tweets from
rss, facebook postings etc, we also spend a lot of time on real-time
scans of tweets that relate to library (whether the user is following
the account) and answer if appropriate.

This can sometimes delight the user who isn't expecting an answer but
equally can scare off users.

We have being doing this for 2 years now and have a learnt a lot from
trial and error on the type of the tweets one should respond to, and
which ones we shouldn't.

### Comments ###

