---
title: "The change in cataloging rules from AACR2 to RDA"
layout: default
---
The change in cataloging rules from AACR2 to RDA
=====================
What are some of the benefits and drawbacks of changing cataloging rules
from AACR2 to RDA? Additionally, how is this going to affect the
millions of MARC records currently in AACR2 rules? When is the change
expected to roll out to all libraries?

KatieR

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">cataloging</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Starting from the end, because it's easier:

*When is the change expected to roll out to all libraries?* Magic 8-Ball
says CANNOT PREDICT NOW. In addition to the AACR2 to RDA transition,
there's a MARC to linked-data/relational-database (depends on whom you
ask) transition underway. Leaving aside that neither transition's goal
state is fully-mapped yet, when the transitions hit a library near you
depends *heavily* on ILS vendors, who just now are giving the whole
thing a complete miss.

*How is this going to affect the millions of MARC records currently in
AACR2 rules?* Magic 8-Ball says REPLY HAZY, TRY AGAIN. The current claim
as I understand it is that RDA records and AACR2 records can
more-or-less happily coexist in the same catalog. Whether that continues
to be the party line given the MARC-to-whatever transition is under
debate ([the BIBFRAME
list](http://listserv.loc.gov/listarch/bibframe.html) is the place to
be; see also [Karen Coyle's blog](http://kcoyle.blogspot.com/)).

*What are some of the benefits and drawbacks of changing cataloging
rules from AACR2 to RDA?*

Rather than try to tackle this one myself, I'll shell out to smarter
people than I: [speakers at a CILIP RDA
briefing](http://www.ariadne.ac.uk/issue63/rda-briefing-rpt) and [Karen
Coyle](http://www.dlib.org/dlib/january07/coyle/01coyle.html). Magic
8-Ball says YOU MAY RELY ON IT. Er, them.

### Comments ###

Answer by slmcdanold
----------------
Like Dorothea, I'm going to work backwards through your questions.

*When is the change expected to roll out to all libraries?* Which part
of the change? The change from AACR2 to RDA? Well, there's several
answers to this.

The change in the National Authority File will be March 31, 2013. There
will be some headings in the NAF that are still AACR2 and will need
manual clean up, but the vast majority of headings will be "RDA
compliant" and will require no maintenance. All new authority headings
added to the NAF from April 1, 2013 on MUST be RDA headings.

The Library of Congress is going one step further, and switching ALL
cataloging to RDA on the same timeline. They are currently in process of
training all their catalogers so they will be ready for the March 2013
deadline. The training materials are available for free here:
[http://www.loc.gov/catworkshop/RDA%20training%20materials/index.html](http://www.loc.gov/catworkshop/RDA%20training%20materials/index.html)
Information on LC's RDA plans is here:
[http://www.loc.gov/aba/rda/](http://www.loc.gov/aba/rda/)

When asked at ALA, *most* libraries intend on making the change from
AACR2 to RDA cataloging in the same time frame, as in the first quarter
(or half) of 2013.

Information from the PCC (Program for Cooperative Cataloging, aka
BIBCO/CONSER/NACO/SACO) on implementation can be found on the PCC
website:
[http://www.loc.gov/aba/pcc/rda/RDA%20Implementation.html](http://www.loc.gov/aba/pcc/rda/RDA%20Implementation.html)
There is no "hard and fast" deadline for the switch. It's anticipated
that once libraries start switching (and several libraries that
participated in the test have continued to catalog in RDA so it's
already started) it will have a snowball effect and more and more
libraries will switch to RDA.

*How is this going to affect the millions of MARC records currently in
AACR2 rules?* Short answer: it's NOT. RDA was written so that AACR2
records will NOT have to be re-cataloged. AACR2 and RDA are perfectly
capable of playing nice with each other and living side by side.

That said, there are task groups working on the idea of "hybrid"
AACR2/RDA records to fully utilize the benefits of RDA. The goal is to
enhance the AACR2 records, without affecting their bibliographic
integrity.

*What are some of the benefits and drawbacks of changing cataloging
rules from AACR2 to RDA?* Things like relationships in RDA are where the
"real" benefits live. It's a step towards linked data. One of the
biggest differences is just the way you *think* about a resource when
you describe it. But we are currently prevented from fully utilizing RDA
by the limits of MARC. I second Dorothea's recommendations to
read/listen to Karen Coyle and others on this topic.

The change from MARC to whatever comes next (the Bibliographic Framework
initiative
[http://www.loc.gov/marc/transition/](http://www.loc.gov/marc/transition/)
) will have a whole different impact and hopefully we'll be able to
fully utilize the benefits of RDA.

### Comments ###

