---
title : The old Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature
---
The old Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature
=====================
I know that today's equivalent is Google, but I feel like it's missing
something. Back in the 80's, when I was in 6th grade, we learned how to
use the Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature. After an hour or so of
instruction, I felt pretty confident that I could find all the
interviews that a certain author gave, or articles about that author in
magazines that mattered. Or at least, I could find a worthwhile list. So
I'm looking for articles about, or interviews with some Authors, like
Ken Follett, Herman Wouk, etc. I google their names. These authors have
been published and successful for decades. I'm sure there must be
interviews with each of them in some major magazines during that time.
But I'm not seeing them in a google search.

Can anyone tell me where you would look for something like this?

Cedar Bristol

### Comments ###
* Cedar Bristol: I just found the site of the [actual reader's
guide](http://www.ebscohost.com/academic/readers-guide-to-periodical-literature).
You have to pay, so I guess the answer is to find out if Seattle Public
Library subscribes to this. The question seems a bit silly now that
writing it out seems to have brought me to the answer.
* jonsca: Well, it's okay to ask and answer your own question, so if you elaborate
a bit on why that's the answer, be my guest.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
You should try Google Scholar for scholarly articles and Google Books
for books. They are fairly comprehensive, importing citations from a
wide range of databases and libraries. In Google Scholar, the records
will typically tell you not only the citation but what database you will
find it in, which makes tracking down the article a little easier.

In Google Scholar, for example, if I search for Herman Wouk I get pages
and pages of citations, including all of his books. If I use the
advanced search (hit the down triangle at the end of the search box) and
ask for Herman Wouk in the title, I get 3 pages of citations - a mix of
literary criticism, biography, and book reviews.

Some libraries are now using Ebsco Direct (the library where I work is
transitioning to it now). You can usually tell by the search box which
allows you to search not only the inhouse materials (traditional
catalog) but all of the online resources as well. Ebsco purchased
indexing rights to about 85% of the databases out there, so if your
library has this capability, you can search from the library's website
and all of the articles and books they have access to will be returned
in the search - so Reader's Guide but only for actually available
materials. It's way better than the clunky federated searching of the
past, search result relativity is higher because they are indexed
records (not just kewowrd), and you know you can read what you find!

### Comments ###

