---
title : Web archives that collect/request analytics of harvested sites?
---
Web archives that collect/request analytics of harvested sites?
=====================
Are there any web archiving projects or web archives that also
collect/request web analytics of the harvested sites as part of the
collection?

Jefferson Bailey

### Comments ###
* anarchivist: What sort of analytics? Do you mean something comparable to Google
Analytics, Piwik, etc.?
* Jefferson Bailey: Yep. Google, Piwik, AWStats, that Adobe product that shall not be named.
Was thinking of how we measure use of archival collections over time and
how analytics offer a way of recording how web archives are used over
time (pre- or post-capture). I realize the added difficulty of working
with site managers/owners to get this info. Was just curious if anyone
had thought or tried it? User/visit info seems like important contextual
detail and something most managers/owners are already capturing, so not
hard to get (or request, at least).


Answer by anarchivist
----------------
This is a rather unscientific investigation, but by examining the source
of the web archives (namely the header frames of each), it appears that
both the [CDL Web Archiving Service](http://webarchives.cdlib.org/) and
[Archive-It](http://archive-it.org/) both capture analytics. The Web
Archiving Service uses Google Analytics, and Archive-It uses Piwik. It's
worth noting that the Wayback Machine at the Internet Archive doesn't
appear to collect analytics (at least using a platform that depends on
loading JavaScript, such as Google Analytics or Piwik).

### Comments ###

