---
title : What skill sets should students interested in digtial preservation careers focus on?
---
What skill sets should students interested in digtial preservation careers focus on?
=====================
A colleague of mine is working on a presentation for students about
Careers in Digital Preservation. Anyone want to share the skill sets
that you think they should have? Or what you think the job prospects
are?

Brainstorming is great. She's also hoping for some quotes from people in
the field.

MGallinger

### Comments ###
* jonsca: I have turned this question into a "Community Wiki", which will lower
the reputation barrier to editing. For the future, though, we would like
to discourage "list" type questions.


Answer by Jay Gattuso
----------------
I think its a very broad question, and there is a plethora of desirable
skillsets that are / would be of value.

If I may be so bold, I'd probably split the question into two groups -
and class them as technical centric and context centric. My background /
role is more on the technical side, and as such I can offer some
suggestions (some of these bleed over into the more contextual side of
things as its not a perfect split).

**Infrastructure** - Its one thing knowing a server from a switch, but
its quite another to approach the topographic components from a
preservation perspective. Anecdotally, the traditional view of IT
services and preservation seems to be more along the lines of
month-to-month preservation focusing mainly on bitwise preservation
(hashing, replaying of bitstreams, delivery of suitable applications). I
think it takes quite a conceptual shift to understand that year-to-year
preservation has a much longer purview, and in principle is less focused
the bitwise preservation, and more the conceptual preservation of
information. This means assuring informational blocks through time, and
not just binary blocks (IT based colleagues, feel free to shoot this one
down!)

**Database Admin / Analyst (DBA)** - For me this a bread and butter role
of a repository. You need to understand what your objects are, how to
locate them, how to access them, how to check on them, and we're talking
about large numbers of digital objects. Whilst its not a core DP role
perhaps, its takes a DBA a decent amount of knowledge to understand the
specific preservation based questions and functions that are needed in a
DP system - a good example is the notion of managing a moving hash value
(object A comes in with hash A, preservation function occurs and object
is changed, resulting a new object (B) and thus in hash A and hash B
relating to the same intellectual object. Anything that happens to
object A must be reflected in someway with object B, and so these things
are abstractly but intrinsically linked - its a small example, but an
example none the less of how a traditional DBA needs some additional
models to work from.

**Technical Content Specialist** - Someone who can tell you what is
important from a technical perspective about any digital object you
encounter. Needs a very diverse set of skills (arguably the most
important one is good google-fu...) some comprehension of what
information contained inside a digital object (primary and meta), what
standards are for file / information types and how to tell if something
does meet a standard, what to do with invalid digital objects, managing
/ recording / explaining what the holding institution knows about the
digital object (e.g. does this TIF image contain GIS information in the
XMP sidecar, if so, what does it point to?), a list of other technical
functions that could be asked at any time to help the holding
institution collect, appraise, record and store digital things
(including assessing and dealing with unknown bitstreams....)

**Preservation Action Specialist** - Someone who is responsible for the
preservation functions. Migrations, access copy generations, any
emulation platform, interpretations of objects, creation of groups of
objects that can be worked on together, knowing how to tell that story
to content owners / guardians so they can be comfortable with any
actions being undertaken, informing policy, reporting on processes,
keeping informed etc etc...

**Preservation Policy Specialist** - Someone to handles the internal
policy side of ensuring that preservation activities are properly
codified, documented and aligned with other business units and they
handle the theoretical / philosophical concerns and considerations of
preservation management.

I put the policy role at the least technical side of the technical
roles.

On the contextual side, I'd have to say its the usual library, museums
and archive functions (records management, collection planning,
collecting, curating, indexing, cataloging etc) but in a way that is (1)
digitally savvy and (2) preservation aware.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
In our [SPRUCE Project Mashup
events](http://wiki.opf-labs.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=13041673)
we've guided digital preservation practitioners through various steps in
building a business case for new work they'd like to take on. One
activity focuses on a skills gap analysis within each practitioner's
organisational setup. The results of these [digital preservation
business case activities are captured by event
here](http://wiki.opf-labs.org/display/SPR/The+SPRUCE+Business+Case+for+Digital+Preservation)
(see the links to the Glasgow and London Mashups, and then follow on to
the Skills Gap Analysis sections). This data is somewhat raw (we're
planning to pull it together into some more useful guidance/best
practice work), but it may provide some useful pointers based on real
needs in Libraries, Archives and other preserving organisations.

Summarising this quickly in order to provide some degree of answer here
is difficult as the needs tend to be pretty varied. A common core skills
requirement however is for basic technical skills. Running tools from
the command line, scripting tools up to run over data, that kind of
thing.

The other approach is to look at what jobs are being advertised in this
field right now, and what skills those roles require. The [code4lib jobs
site](http://jobs.code4lib.org/) and the [Digital Preservation Coalition
site](http://www.dpconline.org/newsroom/vacancies) are great places to
do that.

### Comments ###

