---
title : Are there periodical series, such as National Geographic, that it makes sense for libraries to keep longterm?
---
Are there periodical series, such as National Geographic, that it makes sense for libraries to keep longterm?
=====================
I understand that each library collection is different and serves its
own audience and clientele, but are there some periodicals that multiple
libraries might want to acquire the full series? I have a significant
collection of National Geographic magazines dating back to the seventies
as well as some other titles. Is there a good way to donate these? How
would I approach a library about making a donation? My reasoning is that
I would like to donate them to a library that would like to add to its
back issues collection or something helpful like that.

grayQuant

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Hi grayQuant. Unfortunately, questions on the site must pertain to
issues that professional librarians would face. This is more of a
"consumer" issue. I'm not sure it can be reformulated as to reflect the
perspective of the library (as "should libraries accept old magazines"
or something of that nature isn't very constructive). I'm not sure where
else this would be on-topic, to be honest.
* Canadian Girl Scout: @jonsca Hi :) Keeping the above suggestions in mind, I've attempted to
edit this question to make it useful to the community at large. Hope
others vote to reopen!
* jonsca: @CanadianGirlScout Not trying to give you a hard time here, but you
didn't change the basic premise of the question from what made it off
topic in the first place. You did inject some professional aspects into
it, but the "where should I donate my magazines" isn't something
pertinent to a librarian in a professional setting. We'll see what
others think.
* Canadian Girl Scout: @jonsca The OP does not ask 'Where should I donate my magazines?' The
question, as edited, is valid and applicable to librarianship today. New
librarians face such issues and ask themselves these questions. A good
answer here will help new librarians to be able to explain their
collection-development practices & policies and may provide a script (of
sorts) to follow when they are faced with similar questions about series
retention and donations.
* jonsca: He has said "Is there a good way to donate these?", which you have left
in your edit of the question. Again, I'm willing to leave this up to the
community to decide, but I think if you have a question about series
retention and how libraries should treat donations, just formulate it
constructively and ask that as a brand new question. As is, you're also
getting further from the OP's intent, which isn't completely fair to
him/her.
* jonsca: @CanadianGirlScout Please don't be discouraged, though, there are a lot
of questions on the site that could use polishing! I just think we may
be beating a dead horse with this one.
* grayQuant: Sorry for all the trouble, I did not realize that this SE was strictly
professional questions, I thought some library professionals would be
able to answer my question based on their knowledge.
* jonsca: @grayQuant No, no trouble at all, it just wasn't on topic. Apologies
that we littered your inbox with our debate.
* Joe: @grayQuant : just go and ask your local library. Ours gets enough
donations of magazines that we have rules for how to deal with them.
(recent ones get sent to the local retirement community; some get sold
with weeded books, etc.)


