---
title : What basic services are typically provided by a library?
---
What basic services are typically provided by a library?
=====================
As part of the [Document Availability Information
API](http://purl.org/NET/DAIA) (DAIA) I once defined a set of services
that libraries can provide, connected to a particular document. The
result was:

-   **loan**: a patron can borrow the document (use it at home for some
    time)
-   **access/presentation**: a patron can view or use a document within
    the library (for instance newspapers or databases which can only be
    accessed from the library intranet)
-   **interlibrary loan**: a patron gets a document (or a copy)
    delivered from another library to its home library.
-   **openaccess**: a patron is just pointed to an URL to directly get a
    digital document that is available as Open Access.

I think about revising the DAIA ontology by moving this part into a more
general *Library Service Ontology* (LIBSO). This ontology should be not
more and not less than a classification of basic services, typically
provided by a library. This could also include services not directly
connected to a document, for instance using a carrel or a study room for
group discussion.

What basic services are typically provided by a library? Maybe there are
some recommendations or classifications to build on for the library
service ontology?

**P.S:** I started to specify a [Document Service
Ontology](http://gbv.github.com/dso/dso.html) for library services that
involve documents.

Jakob

### Comments ###


Answer by acka47
----------------
I've collected some services by taking a look at library sites in my
[Master Thesis (German)](http://hdl.handle.net/10760/16175) (especially
4.3.3). Also, I made a first stab at a classification of services based
on whether a service

-   involves direct interaction of library personnel or not
-   is provided in-house or online.

These aspects are relevant for describing a service because you can only
add opening hours information to services where personnel is directly
involved and you can only add spatial information to in-house services.
I don't know whether this classification really makes sense or whether
one should better drop it. Just posting it here for discussion.
Nonetheless, you might benefit from the listed services below.

Applying the aspects described above results in four classes of library
services:

1.  **Webbased services without direct personnel involvement**:

    -   OPAC and other research services
    -   List of recent acquisitions
    -   Online Tutorials
    -   Place an order
    -   Renewal of a loan
    -   Online acquisition request service
    -   Digitization Service
    -   ...

2.  **Webbased services with direct personnel involvement**:

    -   Chat reference/consulting

3.  **In-house services with direct personnel involvement**

    -   In-house guided tours and courses
    -   Digitization Service
    -   Microfiche readers
    -   Reference Desk
    -   Loan Desk
    -   Registration Desk
    -   Consulting Service
    -   3D printer
    -   Makerspace
    -   ...

4.  **In-house services without direct personnel involvement**

    -   Reading Room
    -   Study room
    -   Wifi
    -   Computers with Internet Access
    -   Photocopier
    -   Scanner for use by visitors
    -   3D printer
    -   Computer for self-loan
    -   Cafeteria
    -   Drinks machine
    -   ...



### Comments ###
* Jakob: Thanks! I commented [on the classification in my
blog](http://jakoblog.de/2013/03/13/uberlegungen-zur-modellierung-von-bibliotheksdienstleistungen/)
* AaronC: This is really cool; did you rely on any sources in particular in
forming the list?

