---
title: "What services do libraries need from public cloud storage before they are trusted for long-term archival?"
layout: default
---
What services do libraries need from public cloud storage before they are trusted for long-term archival?
=====================
Here's what's bothering me today...

-   Long term assurances (and service level guarantees) for durability
-   ability to get my data in and out of the cloud (multiTB doesn't work
    over the WAN)


Gail Truman

### Comments ###
* anarchivist: I don't understand this question. What do you mean by "public cloud
storage," and what do you mean by "trust" in this case?
* Chris Adams: I would ask how these are different from any other type of archival
storage? I certainly wouldn't rely on any single system to be available
long-term and scaling will be an issue even for purely local storage.
Just as a cloud provider might fail or change their offerings, so will
your storage or software vendors. For me, the question distills down to
how you will audit a particular system's reliability, manage and
replicate the multiple storage systems you need for true long-term
storage, and provide a stable interface for users.


Answer by nik
----------------
I think that one of the biggest problems with public cloud storage is
that you have limited control over your data, i.e. you don't have
physical control over it.

While you may have all the SLAs and long-term assurances, what happens
when the cloud hosting company goes bankrupt or is bought out by another
company? This is especially a problem for very long term projects such
as archiving.

### Comments ###

Answer by argotechnica
----------------
Whether by "public cloud storage" you mean e.g. Box.com, Dropbox, etc.
(consumer-grade services); or you mean e.g. Amazon Glacier, which is
specifically built for long-term archiving; then maybe there's no reason
you couldn't use public cloud storage today if *your* "assurances for
durability" were adequate, e.g. through redundancy across multiple
services.

[Kindura Project](http://kindura.cerch.kcl.ac.uk/?page_id=2) took the
approach of using "a hybrid cloud, shared service and in house model" in
which the prototype:

> provides Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) components, via storage
> and compute services, but more importantly it will combine these,
> using DuraCloud and Fedora as enabling technologies, to provide an
> integrated Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) package of repository-centric
> services.

So, what @Chris said: your own strategy must ensure reliability, so
redundancy is maybe a way to use cloud storage today.

But it sounds like what you're really looking for is "Archiving as a
Service" and wondering, what would make such a thing possible? Zoolz,
which uses Glacier, could be a good place to start. Or check out this
ACM paper about cloud archiving:
[https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1940782](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1940782).
(Includes a case study "using the records transfer process from Japanese
government agencies to the National Archives of Japan as an example.")

In any case, the way you figure out "AaaS" still goes back to your
archiving strategy. What problems are you actually trying to solve, and
what makes cloud attractive/unattractive as a result? This sounds like
an institution-by-institution question to me.

### Comments ###

