---
title : Migrating a repository content to a different platform
---
Migrating a repository content to a different platform
=====================
I'm working on a project where we will be migrating data from an ePrints
repository to a Fedora-based repository. Has anyone ever done something
like this? I can get a batch export of EP3 XML but am not sure if there
is a way to ingest it into the Fedora platform without running XSL on
it.

I'm also wondering how to use the current file attachment locations in
the directory by providing links in the new interface, rather than
actually having to move the files themselves.

I'm in over my head. Help!

user1010

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: Can't help but be reminded of the saying: out of the frying pan into the
fire.


Answer by walker
----------------
(I'm presently undertaking a similar task - moving a host of digital
records and their metadata into DSpace.)

I usually feel the specific particularities of these sorts of migrations
outweigh the benefit gained from their overarching similarities (i.e.
it's those details that will snag you). Nevertheless, my thoughts on
your project:

-   I believe all ingested content for Fedora must be accompanied by
    either a FOXML or METS `.xml` file so that it can be managed
    according to Fedora's digital object model. Of the two FOXML seems
    an easier to target transformation, all else being equal. So yes -
    you'd need to run XSL on your exported ePrints records, or have some
    other way to convert them.

-   Regarding your file attachment situation: do other systems or
    software reference the current locations of these files? If so, then
    it strikes me you will lean toward preserving their current
    directory locations, and have Fedora manage them as **[externally
    referenced
    content](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FEDORA36/Fedora+Digital+Object+Model#FedoraDigitalObjectModel-Datastreamsdata)**.

    If not, and ePrints is the only system referencing these locations,
    it strikes me as easier to group these files alongside the new FOXML
    files you'll be generating, so that Fedora can manage them in its
    asset store as it will as **[managed
    datatreams](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FEDORA36/Fedora+Digital+Object+Model#FedoraDigitalObjectModel-Datastreamsdata)**.

-   Having a stable, efficient testing routine is fundamental to your
    sanity. These sorts of projects are epic (before you know it, you'll
    be undertaking metadata normalization as part of your XML
    transformation workflow, etc.) so slow, methodical steps in a
    backed-up environment are key.

Fedora is incredibly flexible and powerful but also quite complex as far
as asset management systems go. You may find it isn't the software you
need - just a possibility to be aware of. In any event, projects that
leverage Fedora as a repository component - like
[Islandora](http://islandora.ca/) and [Hydra](http://projecthydra.org/)
- may be worth looking into.

### Comments ###

