---
title: "Best Starting Point for a Uncatalogued Library"
layout: default
---
Best Starting Point for a Uncatalogued Library
=====================
I have recently been put in charge of developing a school library. Until
this point, the school has not had a library, nor do they have much
funding for resources etc. I am not a librarian so have little to no
knowledge of electronic cataloging systems (so am a bit out of my
depth).

I have joined the SLA and have organised the collection into a basic
system ie. alphabetical order for the fiction section, reference for
dictionaries etc, non-fiction by subject. It is at the point now though
that we have to put in place an electronic borrowing system and I have
no idea where to start. I have tried the old paper borrowing card system
but I feel I could ask for a small amount of money for funding from the
PTA for an electronic system. Does anyone have any suggestions of some
basic software systems that I could use to create a catalogue and
borrowing system or the name of a company who provides library equipment
such as security system for the books (cards, barcodes, scanning
equipment etc).

I would really appreciate any help or advice anyone could give.

Louise

### Comments ###
* Jeni: I've started and deleted several answers and think it would be helpful
if you added more information: size of school, size of collection so
far, what do you mean by "old paper borrowing card system" (circulation
cards, pockets, date due cards?). Is the school connected to any others
- will there be lending / borrowing between schools?
* Jeni: Also, read
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/545/what-are-good-free-or-cheap-cataloging-systems-for-personal-or-small-library-us?rq=1
* Wowbagger: I've done the same thing as Jeni, but have a different question: What
kind of technology and technology support do you have?


Answer by Heather Maneiro
----------------
I was in a very small private school that also got PTA funding to
automate. They went with L4U (the decision was made and partially
implemented before I started). I found the software extremely easy to
use - I started after the previous librarian left with no overlap (and
thus no training). I would recommend checking out their web page
([http://www.l4u.com/](http://www.l4u.com/)) and asking for a quote.

You may also want to check with your state and district librarians. Many
states and districts have consortium purchasing for software and grants
to assist with automation.

### Comments ###

