---
title: "Are electronic court records available through university libraries?"
layout: default
---
Are electronic court records available through university libraries?
=====================
Where do all librarians go to find cost-free access to---United States
jurisdictional---court records via electronic search by non-case-number
look up?

Trancot

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">legal-questions</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* jonsca: I think this may depend on jurisdiction and level. Could you be a bit
more specific and, perhaps, make this into a general question that might
be pertinent to all librarians? Thanks!
* jonsca: Thank you for fixing it!


Answer by Joe
----------------
(answering this as an elected official w/ a library background, not
specifically as a librarian)

There are a *lot* of different jurisdictions, and not all make digital
versions freely accessible. I remember in the 1990s there were
complaints about how companies like LexisNexis and Westlaw effectively
'own' the rights to distribute the laws and court records, which made it
difficult for the average citizen to get access.

These days, there are a lot more options -- [UCLA has a list of sites to
get federal laws
from](http://libguides.law.ucla.edu/content.php?pid=34909&sid=256638),
as well as [California and some other state and local
laws](http://libguides.law.ucla.edu/content.php?pid=34909&sid=256604).
Some of those sites are free, while others will charge for retrieval of
the documents.

What they don't seem to mention is
[public.resource.org](https://public.resource.org/), a project that's
been paying to get public records that are behind paywalls, and making
them freely available. As PACER is always growing, I doubt they have a
100% complete record, but as the charges are for printing at the end, it
should be possible to do a search on PACER, and then check
resource.org's PACER archive to see if they already have a copy. (and if
they don't, buy it from PACER and ['recycle' it by sending a copy to
resource.org](http://pacer.resource.org/))

In my state (Maryland), there's a [search engine
available](http://casesearch.courts.state.md.us/inquiry/inquiry-index.jsp),
but for the most part, they just give [a listing of the various motions
/ documents associated with the
case](http://casesearch.courts.state.md.us/inquiry/inquiryDetail.jis?caseId=CAL0931981&detailLoc=PGV),
without actually making them available for retrieval.

It's fairly common for public and university libraries to have access to
their state and federal case law, but never having worked at one of
them, I have no idea if those are paid for by the library system, or in
some way complementary. (or if it varies by state).

### Comments ###

