---
title: "What repositories are exposing information about research data sets as Linked Data?"
layout: default
---
What repositories are exposing information about research data sets as Linked Data?
=====================
What repositories that collect research data are also exposing
information about those resources as Linked Data? I'm interested both in
library-run institutional repositories and disciplinary repositories
that we as librarians may be referring our faculty to.

I'll interpret "repository" broadly, to mean any service that collects
stuff, even meta-discovery services that bring in material from
elsewhere. For Linked Data, I'm interested in defining this broadly as
well - anything that is remotely Semantic Web-like. Something beyond
OAI-PMH, for example.

Jenn Riley

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: Kind of depends on what you mean by Repository and Linked Data :-)
* Jenn Riley: Gee, thanks, Ed. :-) I'll interpret "repository" broadly, to mean any
service that collects stuff, and the DataCite structure Trevor mentions
below could be included in that. For Linked Data, I'll take anything
that is remotely Semantic Web-like. Something beyond OAI-PMH, for
example.
* jonsca: @JennRiley Could you edit the specifics back into your question in case
the comment gets lost in the shuffle? Thanks!


Answer by trevormunoz
----------------
This question prompted me to go look at something I'd marked on Twitter
but forgotten to follow up on. Apparently, DataCite is exposing linked
data about the data sets it knows about through its search interface:
[http://search.datacite.org/ui](http://search.datacite.org/ui)

So, not exactly a Repository, but it is a new source of linked data
about published/shared data sets. Also, in light of Ed's point above, it
must be said that the amount of linking in this linked data is a bit
weak so far, see e.g.,
[http://data.datacite.org/10.6073/AA/KNB-LTER-CAP.166.1](http://data.datacite.org/10.6073/AA/KNB-LTER-CAP.166.1)

### Comments ###

Answer by anarchivist
----------------
Like Trevor's comment, [DataBib](http://databib.org/) is not really a
data set repository, but rather a registry for data set repositories. It
publishes linked data about the repositories in RDFa.

### Comments ###

