---
title : How to deal with preservation of software with unknown author and licence?
---
How to deal with preservation of software with unknown author and licence?
=====================
Some even very old educational software is still of value today and it
is worth preserving.

The problem is that nowadays the licence rights are very important
topic, but 20 or 30 years ago it was not considered important for many
programmers, who have made such software peaces, don't placing any
licence or even their names. But how can you tell if such program, found
in some archive in school workshop was intentionally made without
credits, or such credits were removed by someone?

Can the archiving such software for preservation theoretically and
practically violate someone's intellectual or material rights? Note that
such software is to be considered coming from unknown source, because no
one is going no to tell, where such program come from, and who have
copied them? It may be some student's work or pirated software of some
company who doesn't exist anymore.

Łukasz Lech

### Comments ###
* gmcgath: This is an example of what's known in the general case as "orphan
works," works that may be in copyright but to which there are no known
claims. It's a problem that big institutions have wrestled with, without
much success.


Answer by NONE
----------------
It depends.

Some jurisdictions allow exemptions to copyright law for archives,
allowing them to make copies without breaching any copyright.

Without knowing what laws apply to you and what exemptions under
copyright legislation exist, it is difficult to provide a definitive
answer.

Proper legal advice should be sought to ensure that the risks of having
an action taken against you are minimised.

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: Of course, simply having the software in an archive (the "make copies
without breaching any copyright") does you little good if you can't
legally run it, or show it to anyone. The question as asked might be
answerable in a general sense, but proper legal advice for one's own
locale should \*definitely\* be sought in addition.

Answer by wizzard0
----------------
There is a neat legal workaround - register the company operating the
archive on Antigua and Barbuda [which is specifically exempt from WIPO
copyright treaties and
DMCA](http://www.antigua.gov.ag/article_details.php?id=3846&category=38).
You'll probably have to keep at least some employees there, with the
rest as the contractors from where they are.

Also, keep a DMCA complaint form right next to any software item, and
check the email often.

This is as practical as it can get :)

If you live in the country that is a member of WIPO (I think yes), I
suggest writing them directly, but AFAIK there are no solutions as of
now.

### Comments ###
* gmcgath: I am no lawyer, but I have serious doubts that merely registering a site
in a country provides any protection if you don't actually live there.
There are lots of domains registered in Tuvalu (.tv) and Montenegro
(.me), but that doesn't mean they operate under the laws and immunities
of those countries.
* wizzard0: Not website, but an entire company. With a legal address, taxes,
probably employees on the island and so on. The actual employees could
then be contractors of said company.

