---
title: "Is the PDF format appropriate for preserving documents with long perspective?"
layout: default
---
Is the PDF format appropriate for preserving documents with long perspective?
=====================
PDF is almost a de facto standard when it comes to exchanging documents.
One of the best things is that always, on each machine, the page numbers
stay the same, so it can be easily cited in academic publications etc.

But de facto standard is also opening PDFs with Acrobat Reader. So the
single company is making it all functioning fluently.

However, thinking in longer perspective, say 50 years, is it a good idea
to store documents as PDFs? Is the PDF format documented good enough to
ensure that after 50 years it will be relatively easy to write software
that will read such documents, taking into account that PDF may be then
completely deprecated and no longer supported?

Łukasz Lech

### Comments ###


Answer by NONE
----------------
The [PDF/A](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDF/A) ("Archival" PDF) formats
have been adopted by the International Standards Organization as an open
standard for long-term document preservation.

PDF/A omits some features (such as proprietary compression algorithms)
which prevent the PDF standard from being truly open and specifies
additional features (such as embedded fonts) to ensure that a document's
appearance stays consistent across platforms.

No file format is perfect, and we can't predict future market and
technological changes with certainty, but PDF/A is a robust and
well-supported standard for the long-term storage of electronic
documents. It's what my institution uses in its digital repository.

(By the way, even for non-preservation PDFs, the format is
well-documented enough that [non-Adobe vendors and open source
developers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_PDF_software) have
written software to view and create PDF files.)

Note that everyday PDFs are *not* PDF/A compliant by default. If you
have PDFs that you plan to store for long-term preservation, you'll have
to convert them to PDF/A using Adobe Acrobat or some other software
package.

You should also be aware that the recently released PDF/A-3 standard
allows the embedding of arbitrary file formats, which could lead to a
loss of interoperability if a proprietary or poorly documented item is
embedded.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: Converting a PDF to a PDF/A may actually destroy some of the information
content which PDF/A does not support. The conversion process may also be
unintentionally lossy. Any migration from format to format should only
be undertaken if absolutely necessary and with some careful quality
assurance of the results.
* NONE: Yes, that's an important point I neglected to mention. You should make
sure that the conversion will not destroy any content which you intend
to preserve.

Answer by NONE
----------------
I've done a lot of work on Electronic Laboratory Notebooks, where you're
looking to preserve the information in human readable format for 30+
years - often much longer.

The industry has more or less settled on PDF/A. It isn't perfect but it
is documented, and there are multiple implementations of readers.

Importantly from my perspective... you aren't going to be the only
person who wants to read PDFs in 2060.

So there would be a lot of other people wanting to read PDFs, and people
would be able to write a reader for the file format... even if Adobe
etc. are no more.

Given those two facts, I think you can be reasonably sure that the
market will take care of ensuring PDFs are readable well after we've all
stopped caring.

### Comments ###

Answer by Bill Lefurgy
----------------
While PDF/A is specifically designed for long-term preservation, the PDF
file specification itself is, as noted above, very well documented and a
reasonably good bet for remaining accessible into the future, most
especially if it includes searchable text, according to the Library of
Congress [sustainability of digital formats
resource](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000030.shtml).

The same LC resource notes that PDF is a page-oriented format that "is
not a preferred archival or master format for images." This means that
it's best for **textual-oriented** documents.

The latest version of PDF (Version 1.7) is recognized as a international
standard, [ISO
32000-1:2008](http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=51502).

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: I'd agree that PDF can be a good textual preservation format, but it is
really a page description language and sometimes this causes problems.
We've all seen two-column PDFs where the semantic column structure has
been lost - eg cut-and-paste begets interlaced text. Give me HTML, ODF
or even DOC over that.
* Bill Lefurgy: Is that true if the PDF has structural tags? Curious.
* Andy Jackson: If the tags are enabled (rare AFAICT) and done right, it shouldn't be
true. However I've heard (anecdotal evidence only - sorry) that even the
best encoders do a pretty poor job. Need more data. Beside that, someone
once said that Tagged PDF was like trying to reconstruct the cow using
only the burger, and I tend to agree.

Answer by Olaf Drümmer
----------------
PDF/A (ISO 19005-1:2005 for PDF/A-1, ISO 19005-2:2011 for PDF/A-2 and
ISO 19005-3:2012 for PDF/A-3) is especially suitable when the content
already exists in PDF format, or can easily be saved as PDF, or even
right away as PDF/A (for example, Microsoft Office / OpenOffice offer
this feature since 2007/2008).

The focus is on 2-dimensional static final form documents - anything
from letters, invoices, memos, brochures, publications like magazines,
books to engineering drawings, technical documentation or manuals.
Anything that 20 years ago was usually printed and distributed on paper.
In addition, the 'preservation focus' by default is on visual
reproduction, with an optional conformance level to also preserve text
content as properly extractable text (think "Unicode") and also content
order and structural semantics.

Preferably as much of the quality, structure and semantics of the
original content should be preserved when moving towards PDF/A. This
implies for example that it is preferable to save documents as PDF with
a 'tagged PDF' option enabled whenever possible. This ensures that the
reading order/flow of content is mostly or completely maintained, even
on pages with complex layout.

Those who think of office formats, HTML, SGML, ... as an option to be
considered: these formats lack the robust static-ness that PDF (which
you could well think of as 'digital paper') and repeatable visual
reproduction that PDF successfully offers. If you preservation focus is
more on capturing "authoring content while being authored" (including
some non-static stuff like formulas in spreadsheets or macros in a text
processor) then PDF is not the way to go, or when being used (for visual
reproduction, easy distribution format or fallback), must be
supplemented by the original documents in their original formats etc.
(causing it's own set of challenges - how do you know / ensure you can
run today's version of OpenOffice 50 years from now?)

PDF/A tools and technologies have become very wide spread since the
original release of PDF/A (as PDF/A-1 in 2005). In many cases PDF/A
support has been integrated into (document management and other) systems
and programs (like office applications), there are lots of options to do
checking and conversion on all platforms, desktop systems and servers.
An overview can be found on the website of the PDF Association at
www.pdfa.org.

All in all PDF (ISO 32000-1:2008), or preferably PDF/A (ISO 19005
series), is a very reasonable option when it comes to archiving final
form, static, 2-dimensional documents. Personally I do not believe any
other format comes even close for this type of content/documents for
long term preservation, but your mileage may vary. For other types of
content/documents, other formats or approaches may be more suitable.

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: There is no way to ensure that you will be able to run today's version
of OpenOffice in half a decade, but the fact that (even though it isn't
perfect; e.g., I'm not sure the spreadsheet formula issue has been
resolved) OpenDocument \*is\* an ISO standard just like PDF means that
the chance of there existing readers for it in 50 years is significantly
better than for, say, Excel 4.0 spreadsheets.

