---
title: "Tools for identifying obfuscated files, specifically password protected and encrypted formats?"
layout: default
---
Tools for identifying obfuscated files, specifically password protected and encrypted formats?
=====================
I am looking for tools capable of detecting and flagging up encrypted
and password protected files in any given collection.

First there is a necessity for a tool that is capable of doing this and
understanding what is out there (and its range and abilities). Second
there is a requirement for usability and distribution to a probable
non-expert audience.

Ross Spencer

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">software</li><li class="tag">digital-archiving</li><li class="tag">digital-forensics</li><li class="tag">appraisal</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
There are two ways of answering this question. Firstly, for formats that
are known to support encryption (e.g.
[PDF](http://fileformats.archiveteam.org/wiki/PDF#Digital_Rights_Management_.26_Encryption),
[ePub](http://fileformats.archiveteam.org/wiki/EPUB#Digital_Rights_Management_.26_Encryption),
ZIP, etc.), you might expect that characterisation tools can report the
presence of encryption. This is true, but in practice many of the tools
perform poorly because encryption is used in two ways: as well as full
encryption (requiring a specific password to unpack a bytestream),
encryption can be used to support obfuscation (where the encryption
algorithm does not require a password, or only requires a known, shared,
password). For example, PDF uses a default empty string password in some
cases, and the JHOVE characterisation tool cannot distinguish between
this and full encryption.

The second way of answering this question is as follows - are there any
ways of spotting encryption *in general*, i.e. without understanding the
format of the bytestream. The answer to this appears to be 'sometimes'.
Methods such as the visualisation of [bytestream
entropy](http://troydhanson.github.com/misc/Entropy.html) have been
[used to spot encrypted regions of
files](http://corte.si/posts/visualisation/entropy/), and so this kind
of information-theoretical analysis may be useful in some cases.
Formally, however, encryption is statistically indistinguishable from
compression, and therefore this approach will lead to a lot of
false-positives in the presence of compressed data.

There appear to be very few established tools that perform these tasks.

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: As @Euan points out below, there are in fact two approaches to my first
way of answering this question. You can use/create analysis software
like JHOVE, or you can instead use the 'native' software that implements
the format and observe its behaviour (e.g. 'Does Adobe Reader ask for a
password?').

Answer by johan
----------------
For PDF I would recommend you check out Apache Preflight, which is a
PDF/A-1 validator that is part of the PDFBox library. During a recent
SPRUCE hackathon we used this to identify various preservation risks in
PDF (*any* PDF, not just PDF/A!!), see link below for a write-up by the
BL's Pete Cliff:

[http://www.openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2013-03-15-pdf-eh-another-hackathon-tale](http://www.openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2013-03-15-pdf-eh-another-hackathon-tale)

It does distinguish between the case where you need a password to open
the file, and the (less serious) print/copy restrictions.

There's also this earlier report on some first tests I did with an
earlier version of Preflight back in December (some of the conclusions
there are now outdated because Preflight appears to have improved quite
a lot since then):

[http://www.openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2012-12-19-identification-pdf-preservation-risks-apache-preflight-first-impression](http://www.openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2012-12-19-identification-pdf-preservation-risks-apache-preflight-first-impression)

Hope this helps!

### Comments ###

Answer by Euan
----------------
Andy's answer above is unfortunately accurate, however this may be some
hope. While this does not help you right this minute, there has been
some discussion in the past of using emulated environments to do this
sort of testing. Under such a model the format and interaction software
of the file(s) would be submitted to an emulator which would configure
itself to boot that software and open the file(s). The result of this
process would be analysed to see if it included a password input or
decryption requirement. The whole process could be automated and set to
iterate across a large set of files without manual input. This process
would require very similar technology to that included in the [Migration
by Emulation Service](http://eprints.rclis.org/16263/) developed as part
of the Open Planets Foundation work.

Such a tool does assume a certain degree of knowledge of the software
needed to interact with the files and this may limit its applicability.
On the other hand it might be possible to pass an unknown file to a
varied set of emulated environments in order to help both identify the
right software and identify whether the content is password protected or
encrypted.

### Comments ###

