---
title: "Any tools or processes for deleting slack space from donated storage media?"
layout: default
---
Any tools or processes for deleting slack space from donated storage media?
=====================
Slack space poses some questions as far as "donor intent" concerning
digital materials on storage media donated to archives. A donor may
believe this information was deleted and not be aware it is forensically
accesible.

I was curious if there are any specific tools or processes for
deleting/wiping slack space on donated disks & drives. Also interested
in any policies or papers for how archives and archivists are handling
the issue.

Jefferson Bailey

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">digital-archiving</li><li class="tag">born-digital</li><li class="tag">digital-forensics</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: Could you clarify what you mean by 'slack space'?
* Jefferson Bailey: Nick provides a good definition in the comment to David's answer below
(Thanks Nick!). There is a passable explanation here:
http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/security/computer-forensics-finding-hidden-data/232.
There are ways to overwrite slack space information when deleting a
file, but it isn't how most users delete files and can be time
consuming. Was just curious if there was a forensic tool to identify and
delete only slack space info, i.e. the area of a block/cluster allocated
for deletion/rewrite by the file system but not yet overwritten.


Answer by David Tolmie
----------------
I'm not entirely sure what you mean by "slack" space.

If you're looking to securely erase the entire disk/drive, DBAN is
widely used and highly effective.
[http://www.dban.org/](http://www.dban.org/)

I'm less aware of tools to only wipe free space, which is what I think
of when I hear slack space. If you have access to a Mac computer running
newer versions of OSX, Disk Utility provides the ability to erase just
free space. When you select a volume, then select Erasae Free Space, it
will provide you a slider to choose how securely to erase the free space
and explain what actions it will perform to do so. Disk Utility can also
be used to wipe entire drives securely.

If you're wiping flash media, don't get too excessive with the number of
times you have the tool overwrite the device (three should suffice), as
flash media is more prone to wearing out from excessive writes than
magnetic media.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: Storage media divide a bytestream into chunks and allocate these chunks
to clusters on a disk. If the media uses 512 byte clusters and an object
is 513 bytes, the object will be split over two clusters, one with 512
bytes and the second with only 1 byte. The remaining 511 bytes in the
second cluster are empty. This is the slack space. The problem arises
that storage media are typically not overwritten when an object is
deleted. The only thing that's deleted is the reference to the location
of the object. The supposedly empty 511 bytes from above could still
have significant amounts of data.
* Joe: @NickKrabbenhoeft : if that's your concern, if you're willing to accept
the risks of a media refresh, you'd be better off copying the content to
new media in a format that removes that space. (I believe that the TAR
format does, without introducing compression or other parts that might
be problematic).
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: @Joe A media refresh would accomplish the task, but some archives are
interested in preserving the original content on the original media, but
only the content the donor believed they were giving.

Answer by Jakob
----------------
On Windows one can use
[SDelete](http://technet.microsoft.com/de-de/sysinternals/bb897443) to
wipe out selected folders, files, and/or empty space. by the way this is
useful also to save space when virtualizing a Windows machine because
the image of the storage media can better be compressed.

### Comments ###
* Umber Ferrule: This is a command line utility offered by Microsoft.

Answer by Umber Ferrule
----------------
Windows also has [File Shredder](http://www.fileshredder.org/) and
[Eraser](http://www.fileshredder.org/).

Both are free and both discussed on [Gizmo's
Freeware](http://www.techsupportalert.com/best-free-secure-erase-utility.htm)
pages.

### Comments ###

Answer by Wing Tang Wong
----------------
**Whole Disk Method:**

Re-editing my edited answer, since my original answer contained what I
wanted to convey. But to re-word:

​1) The 'dd' command to create a large space consuming file containing
zero(s) is to fill up all the unused, but were potentially previously
used space. Ie, this cleans up the potential hiding spaces on the
device. This does not clean up the current slack space associated with
live files. Ie, a 512 byte file on a filesystem with 32KB clusters would
represent some 31.5KB of potential slack space data, etc.

​2) Once the free space on the disk has been zero'd out, you would then
copy the existing files to another location on the drive. However, to
avoid the slack space issue, you may want to consider which program you
use to copy your files from one location to another. Presuming a program
like "rsync" is only copying data that is part of the live file, you can
just rsync the data from one folder to another folder on the device.
Since all of the other free space has been zero'd out, there is no new
data containing slack space that will be generated.

​3) Once your files have been copied, delete the original files and
re-perform step \#1 to wipe out the newly created "dirty" unused space.

Once you complete the above steps, you will have a drive with the data
files you want to send/leave, and all slack space will have been zeroed
out.

You HAVE to do a full disk zero wipe of the free space to ensure that no
new data bearing slack space is created.

So, updated instructions:

    # Go into the mounted filesystem
    cd /Volume/MountedFileSystem/

    # Wipe the free space on the disk
    dd if=/dev/zero of=./junk-file-containing-zeroes.dat bs=1000000
    rm junk-file-containing-zeroes.dat

    # create a tar file containing just the data you want to send.
    tar cfPp ./datafiles.tar ./

    # Delete the original files containing dirty slackspace
    rm YourFilesAndFoldersButNotThatTarFile

    # Wipe up that new dirty space you just created!! (Yes, this does another full disk free space wipe)
    dd if=/dev/zero of=./junk-file-containing-zeroes.dat bs=1000000
    rm junk-file-containing-zeroes.dat

    # Put the data files back in place
    tar xfPp ./datafiles.tar

If you have a 2nd device you can tardump into, you can avoid the 2nd
wipe, but the instructions above assumes you want to retain certain live
data files on the device.

**Inidividual File Method:**

Note, in the event you don't want to do a full disk wipe, this is what
you can do, for each individual file. For example, I have the following
file:

Note the size:

    -rw-r--r--   1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:07 dirty-data.txt

Note the inode:

    26909293 -rw-r--r--  1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:07 dirty-data.txt

Let's clean a spot on the disk for that file(this needs to be bigger
than the size of the original file and needs to be big enough to fill
out to the next block size on the storage device):

    dd if=/dev/zero of=./clean-data.dat bs=1000000 count=2

Note the inode and size of the clean data file:

    -rw-r--r--   1 wingwong  staff  1000000 Apr 22 11:11 clean-data.dat
    26909297 -rw-r--r--  1 wingwong  staff  1000000 Apr 22 11:11 clean-data.dat

Now, we copy the data from our file into the clean data space:

    $ dd if=./dirty-data.txt of=./clean-data.dat 
    0+1 records in
    0+1 records out
    364 bytes transferred in 0.099726 secs (3650 bytes/sec)

Note the inode of the clean data file, it remains the same as it was
before:

    26909297 -rw-r--r--  1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:12 clean-data.dat
    26909293 -rw-r--r--  1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:07 dirty-data.txt

But the data size is the same as the original dirty-data.txt file:

    -rw-r--r--   1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:12 clean-data.dat
    -rw-r--r--   1 wingwong  staff  364 Apr 22 11:07 dirty-data.txt

At this point, clean-data.dat contains the data from dirty-data.txt,
minus the slack space data.

You can now just remove the original dirty-data.txt file and rename the
new file to take its place.

### Comments ###
* anarchivist: This is wiping the entire disk, not just the slack space.
* Wing Tang Wong: No, this is wiping the un-used space on the disk. Live data is not
impacted. Note the 'dd' isn't going to the block device, but to a junk
file on the filesystem.
* anarchivist: Got it - it still doesn't address the problem of wiping the entirety of
it. Can you clarify and/or emphasize this in your answer?
* Wing Tang Wong: Updated answer.
* Wing Tang Wong: Rewrote my answer with two methods: the original whole disk free space
method, and the individual file method. Note that the individual file
method is quicker and doesn't require a full disk write process, but
also doesn't prevent creation of new dirty slack space that's hiding on
the disk. So, user beware.

Answer by anarchivist
----------------
First, I'm presuming that your process would something like the
following -

Either:

1.  Wipe slack space
2.  Image disk

Or:

1.  Image disk
2.  Wipe slack space

The first case is risky; the second case is arguably too much work for
most people or institutions. If your concerns about slack space are
strong enough to acknowledge the significance of the risk of
inadvertently making the data in slack space available, I would strongly
recommend looking at logical disk imaging instead.

There's a great [question with
answers](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/949/how-should-archives-decide-between-creating-logical-or-forensic-disk-images-of-d)
on this site already that addresses why you'd choose forensic or logical
disk imaging. Realistically, it's much easier to just get a logical
transfer of the assets than worrying about deleting slack space across a
heterogeneous set of disk images that may have differing block sizes or
file systems.

### Comments ###

