---
title: "How do you control for objects generated invisibly by OS X, Windows, Linux, etc?"
layout: default
---
How do you control for objects generated invisibly by OS X, Windows, Linux, etc?
=====================
I'm running some experiments with BagIt and noticing a surprising amount
of hidden files being captured in my bags such as .ds\_store, thumbs.db,
and \*.shs. Since these aren't essential files needed to understand the
content of the bag, I'd rather not keep them around. Even worse, because
some are generated systematically, my bags can become invalid when a
thumbs.db or .ds-store sneaks in.

Is there a list of system files like thumbs.db that I can use to
recursively search and delete before bagging?

How do I ensure that my bags aren't invalidated as they sit on a
portable hard drive? (My planned Linux-based NAS is still a few months
out.)

Nick Krabbenhoeft

### Comments ###


Answer by peshkira
----------------
It is definitely not a complete solution, but one approach could be to
check the example .gitignore files here:
[https://github.com/github/gitignore/tree/master/Global](https://github.com/github/gitignore/tree/master/Global)

You can skim through some of them (which seem relevant to your problem)
and compile yourself a list with common files and extensions for the
different operating systems. It could be a good start to filter the
undesired files.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: This plus Andy's suggestion of read-only folders are the solution I was
looking for.
* peshkira: Great, glad it helps. I upvoted Andys answer as well!

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
Once you have stripped these files out, and made a clean bag, I
recommend making the whole bag read-only. This will prevent the OS from
dropping these hidden files back in again.

### Comments ###

