---
title : Is Google Books subscribable to librarians?
---
Is Google Books subscribable to librarians?
=====================
Is Google Books subscribable to libraries, just like link.springer.com
to libraries?

Google Books have a large collection of scanned ebooks. Thanks!

Tim

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Can you clarify what you mean by "subscribable"? Do you want it to send
new content? Do you want to access the full text of all of the books for
your library?
* Tim: @jonsca: I mean the latter.
* jonsca: Ah okay. Good question, I think. I would imagine it would be costly!
Could you add a clarification to the question with the full text bit,
then?


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
No. That may have been the [original
intent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Book_Search_Settlement_Agreement),
but it has been waylaid by a series of court cases. When Google started
scanning all those books, authors cried foul. Google settled for \$125
million, and there was a deal where authors could opt out of having
their books included. Another court intervened, suggesting that "opt in"
would be more appropriate and allowing a class action lawsuit to go
forward. An [appeals
court](http://mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/court-to-hear-googles-challenge-to-class-action-lawsuit-on-book-scanning/?ref=googlebooksearch)
has since said that Google can challenge the legality of the class
action lawsuit. So that is where we are at.

At this point, though, many of the book are searchable, so at least
researchers can identify appropriate resources for their studies, and
this is a fabulous resource for librarians.

### Comments ###
* Joe: They don't even offer those that are well within the public domain?
blah.

