---
title : Setting up National Archive system from scratch –where to start?
---
Setting up National Archive system from scratch –where to start?
=====================
I have been put in a rare and privileged position – I've been asked to
provide technical input for a national archive that is being set up from
scratch in a small developing nation. The task at hand is how to manage,
digitise and give public access to over 30 years of physical government
archival documents, while maintaining the appropriate level of access
control and security. Specifically requested features include
browser-based finding aid, web-based client request tracking system,
redundant encryptedta backup outside the country, and a browser-based
accessioning system.

The constraints - no total number of documents available as yet; small
staff (\<10); staff have limited professional experience as archivists;
no dedicated IT staff; very small pool of available IT support expertise
in Govt and local private sector; unreliable internet access; frequent
natural disasters; limited budget.

Does anyone have any experience in a similar context? I'm especially
interested in hearing about the the pros and cons of particular
EDMS/ERMS in a scenario such as this one.

Nick

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Wow, this is an amazing experience. Let us know if you'd like to blog
about it.
* Harrison W. Inefuku: The International Records Management Trust has a lot of experience
working with governmental archives and records management programs in
developing countries. They have a lot of materials available on their
website, including education and training modules, http://www.irmt.org.


