---
title: "How to deal with retracted articles"
layout: default
---
How to deal with retracted articles
=====================
How do research libraries deal with retracted articles?

Are they actually considered to be unpublished, would they disappear
from the catalog?

Is there a clear indication on the catalogs about its retracted status?

xyz

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">cataloging</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
The articles should remain accessible because they are often cited by
other articles. They need to be clearly marked as retracted. According
to the [International Federation of Library Association and
Institutions](http://www.ifla.org/publications/iflaipa-joint-statement-on-retraction-or-removal-of-journal-articles-from-the-web)
(IFLA):

> In order to preserve the historical record:
>
> Libraries may continue to store articles retracted or removed from the
> published database and provide appropriate access in accordance with
> best practice. At a minimum, publishers shall retain within the
> appropriate database the bibliographical citation of retracted or
> removed articles, the abstract, and the date of and reason for
> retraction or removal, with a link to the full text in the archive or
> (at least) to information about how to obtain the full article from
> the archive. Publishers should make available upon request copies of
> the retracted or removed material to libraries that wish to keep a
> record for archival purposes. In all cases the official archive of the
> publisher should retain all article versions, including retracted or
> removed articles.
>
> Approved by the IFLA/IPA Steering Committee at its meeting in
> Montreal, April 26, 2006.
>
> -   Retracted articles: remain electronically accessible, but are
>     clearly labeled as retracted or withdrawn and are linked to a
>     retraction statement. Removed articles are removed from the
>     publicly accessible database and are not electronically
>     accessible, but the citation to the removed article does remain
>     accessible.

There is an interesting related post here by researcher Phil Davis about
[*The Secret Life of Retracted
Articles*](http://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2012/08/10/the-secret-life-of-retracted-articles/).

### Comments ###

