---
title: "Which ebook-lending platforms exist and how do they differ?"
layout: default
---
Which ebook-lending platforms exist and how do they differ?
=====================
Answers to the question [how ebooks are lent out from a
library](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/603/how-are-ebooks-lent-out-from-a-library)
mentioned some platforms or vendors such as
[Overdrive](http://www.overdrive.com) and
[Freading](http://freading.com) - I also know
[Onleihe](http://www.onleihe.de) from German public libraries. Is there
a comparision of existing systems used by libraries? In addition to
supported formats and e-readers, I am also interested in handling of
typical patron activities such as checkout, renewal and return, patron
accounts, etc.

Jakob

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
While there may be articles comparing the different services, they would
be out of date within a few months of publication, because the game is
changing so quickly. The platforms are in a continual state of
evolution, and they are competing for customers, so user experience is
improving for all, but the pace is affected by blockages from
publishers.

In comparisons we have done in the past, we did not find significant
differences, but chose based on our ability to join a consortium
allowing for some sharing of materials between libraries. This resource
sharing is not so helpful for new bestsellers (you end up buying copies
that only your patrons can use, otherwise they have to wait too long),
but it is great for building a library of older materials, especially
books in series, and children's materials.

Things like checkout, renewals, and returns are largely customizable.
Generally, all platforms are one-use-at-a-time models, materials stop
working after the checkout period expires. Every device has its
idiosyncrasies, so staying up-to-date with all the devices and how they
currently work with your chosen platform is a serious time commitment
for staff.

While pricing structure is similar between the platforms, it is not
between publishers - they are all over the place. Some you will avoid
because they are cost prohibitive. And whatever platform you choose,
consider that you are married to it, because you are only leasing
materials. If you end your subscription, that collection goes away and
you start over. A nearby library I noticed is now offering two different
platforms - twice the work in support for their staff, but it hedges
their investment by dividing it between two platforms.

### Comments ###

Answer by user1083
----------------
Our library just had demo of 3M's Cloud Library ebook hosting product.
They allow libraries to own and move their content (depending on
publisher policies) It seemed easy to use and didn't ask for hardly any
personal info from patrons. Their pricing was comparable to other ebook
lenders. The only down side it does not currently work with older
Kindles (only kindle fire)

### Comments ###

