---
title: "Using holdings data to understand content of library collections in the past"
layout: default
---
Using holdings data to understand content of library collections in the past
=====================
There are a couple pieces to this question. Is it standard practice to
capture ~~in MARC~~ data about when a library acquired an item in its
collections. My sense is that it's not, except maybe for special
collections items.

~~If I'm wrong and catalog records do frequently contain this
information, what MARC fields should someone be looking in?~~

Bottom line: is it possible to use ~~catalog~~ library data to
understand the composition of a libraries collection at different
periods of time—say in 1850 versus in 1900?(Yes, I also realize there is
the issue of weeding but ignore that for a moment and assume we only
care about items still in the collection). Is holdings data usually
available through interfaces that non-librarians might interact with?

trevormunoz

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Just a general FYI for everyone's sake: You don't need to do the
crossouts, people can always view the diff of the two edits by clicking
on the link by the "edited" part at the bottom.
* jonsca: (however, if you want to keep them for stylistic reasons, I get it, I
just wanted to let everyone know that)
* Mary Jo Finch: In this case, the question is now a completely new one, so it helps
explain why previous answers no longer match the question.


Answer by Melissa
----------------
Acquisition dates are generally not in MARC records I have seen, but I
think there's provision for them in the 541 subfield d. In my limited
experience with cataloging software (all belonging to Follett), there is
a "copy information" tab with a "date added" line that we use much more
frequently. For the private university library where I work this is
important information as we have to provide a list of
accessions/deaccessions with cost and dates each fiscal year.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Catalogs consist of linked databases. There is a bibliographic database
which contains your MARC records giving a description of the items in
the collection. This is linked to a holdings database which has a record
for each copy of the materials in the bibliographic database. So, for
example, you may have a record in your bibliographic database for
*Hunger Games* (book) linked to multiple holding records which contain
information like material number, cost, acquisition date, etc. for each
copy of the book your library has. This is further linked to your
membership database by an additional database that tracks which member
number checked out which material number on what date...

Your acquisition information belongs in the holding database, not the
MARC record.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
*Is holdings data usually available through interfaces that
non-librarians might interact with?* I assume you mean the public, or
anyone not on staff.

The answer would depend on the ILS and what is visible on catalog
screens (which is usually customizable by the library), because that is
the only data a non-staff person can search. In our catalog, for
example, there is a column in the search results which can be toggled
between date added (year only) and copyright. You can click on the
column heading to sort.

In testing this, I looked at *Hunger Games*, since I knew we had
multiple copies, that those copies are regularly replaced so would have
different purchase dates, and that individual holdings do not show up in
the catalog (so only one date would show up). So what date would it
choose? It chose the date the bibliographic record was created! This is
not a MARC field, but something that is created by our ILS. Very helpful
too, as the data is available until the bibliographic record is deleted.

Next I looked at the Library of Congress. Their catalog search result
listing only shows the copyright date, so I couldn't sort, but when I
pulled up an individual item record, and looked at the MARC record, I
noticed that LOC had created a MARC field 955 for acquisition dates - as
far as I know 955 is not an official MARC tag.

To your other question - *is it possible to use catalog library data to
understand the composition of a libraries collection at different
periods of time—say in 1850 versus in 1900?* That answer would be No,
since the MARC record system was only developed in 1960 (by the LOC),
and only adopted by libraries as they became computerized over the next
4 decades. I don't think you are going to find searchable computerized
data on historical library holdings. And since most libraries other than
perhaps the LOC probably do not keep bibliographic records of weeded
items, you probably won't get that kind of information in the future
about today's libries.

### Comments ###

