---
title : Why hasn't the library community settled on using hashes as unique universal ids for digital content?
---
Why hasn't the library community settled on using hashes as unique universal ids for digital content?
=====================
It seemed to me that the ability to compute something like an [MD5
hash](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5) has amazing potential as a
unique identifier system for digital content. Anyone can generate and
publish them, and they are more unique than fingerprints. Is there any
major reason why hashes arn't published as unique identifier metadata
for digital objects?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: "Why" questions are often tricky - the answer could be "because they
haven't." - especially with something asking about the library community
as a whole, which covers a wide range of geography and experiences.
* Matt Stephenson: +1, good question as hash functions are useful in so many places.
Unfortunately, what's a feature in one domain (crypto) can sometimes be
crippling here.


Answer by ksclarke
----------------
Other than the answer that getting everyone to agree on a single way is
a very difficult (probably impossible) task, perhaps one answer might be
that people sometimes want to be able to group digital objects using an
identifier scheme.

I'm assuming you're suggesting hashing the digital object itself, rather
than metadata about the digital object (which might change as authorized
headings change over time)...

Imagine a dataset that has been submitted to the institutional
repository. You could hash an uploaded spreadsheet, but what do you do
when the author realizes there was a mistake in it and wants to upload a
modified version? You could hash the modified version, but then you have
two objects, that have a relationship, with no indication of that
relationship in their identifiers (which some would argue is a good
thing, granted).

Some folks want to be able to embed this sort of relationship in the
identifier. One example is how Dryad (a data repository for scientific
datasets) uses DOIs:

[http://wiki.datadryad.org/DOI\_Usage](http://wiki.datadryad.org/DOI_Usage)

Another example would be people who choose to use Cool URIs as their
identifiers. They may create URIs that have a structure indicating
relationships between different items.

I think you can definitely argue that opaque identifiers are better, but
that some people want to embed information in their identifiers is one
example of why hashs wouldn't work for everyone.

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: Sure, but this seems like the situation we have with books, where there
may be many ISBNs for a single book, and you can agragate those, but the
individual ISBNs uniquely identify particular manifestations. I for one
would want a unique identifier for a data set to only identify the
actual data set I worked with, not one that was later updated.
* ksclarke: Right, that's what the DOI Usage plan that Dryad came up with does. When
you cite something (as you said), you want to cite the exact thing you
used, but having that relationship in the identifier (where you can
easily learn there is a newer dataset, perhaps with corrections) lets
you know perhaps you should check out the related version(s). What if
the conclusions you arrived at depended on the flaw in the original
data? Do ISBNs do any sort of grouping like the Dryad usage page
describes (with DOIs)? I'm not aware of any.
* ksclarke: So, for example, maybe you used (and cited): doi:10.5061/dryad.1234.2
but then the author updated the dataset and the repository gave the new
version a doi:10.5061/dryad.1234.3 identifier. The newer one is what's
prominently displayed on the site, but the older one is still accessible
(so your link in your citation doesn't become a dead link). When someone
follows your link though they'll see there is a newer version available
(so may choose to examine the differences between the two).
* ksclarke: Also, personally, I should add that I think there is a very good case to
be made for opaque identifiers, but I'm just presenting (here) a case
that gives an example of why everyone won't agree on a hash as an
identifier.

Answer by Joe
----------------
Hashes only really work to identify a particular packaging of the
content, not the content itself.

So, take for instance if we have an MS Word document and a Pages file
with the exact same content, same metadata, etc -- they're going to be
written to disk differently, and thus, generate different hashes. (and
MS Word is particularly tricky, as it stores the content out of order,
so it can handle undo) Yet, it's perfectly normal to assign a DOI that
takes you to a page asking you what format you want to download in item
in. (typically PDF + something else)

PDF's another problematic one, as it's more a layout language ... this
word gets placed in a particular spot on a page (which is why you'll try
to select a block of text in columns, but it'll select across multiple
columns)... you could have multiple files that generate an identical
printed page. The whole thing might be an image ... or an image + tagged
text ... or text laid out any number of ways.

The stuff that I work with is multi-dimensional scientific data. We have
lots of problems regarding serialization which may or may not be the
'same' content (eg, if you convert integer datum to floats, so there's
no loss of precision or addition of error, is it still the 'same'?) But
even without that, we have column-major form vs. row-major form. Eg:

    1 2 3
    4 5 6
    7 8 9

You can store this as either `[1 2 3] [4 5 6] [7 8 9]` or
`[1 4 7] [2 5 8] [3 6 9]`, and so long as you have the correct metadata
to explain the serialization, you can get back to the 'same' content.

Another problem I've run into are people suggesting that we include
checksums of some sort in data citations. (eg, [Micah Altman's 2007
paper in DLib](http://www.dlib.org/dlib/march07/altman/03altman.html)
... which doesn't work for massive datasets that are 100s of TB.

... and for those wondering why I kept quoting 'same'. The terms 'same'
and 'unique' are used a lot, but you need to define what properties /
characteristics we care about when we define 'same'ness. We typically
care about 'equivalent' rather than 'same' or 'unique', and use of the
term acknowledges that they may not be 100% identical.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Truly said, but problems of sameness and uniqueness also exist if you
use other kinds of identifiers. As soon as one can specify
characteristic properties, one can create a normalized version of the
content and create a hash of it. Your argument still holds to some
degree but don't shoot the messager: the hash only reveals existing
problems that one has to deal with anyway.

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
See also, reasons not to use MD5:

-   [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1224113/examples-of-hash-collisions](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1224113/examples-of-hash-collisions)
-   [http://www.mscs.dal.ca/\~selinger/md5collision/](http://www.mscs.dal.ca/~selinger/md5collision/)

But assuming you had an adequate algorithm, the more fundamental problem
others spoke to is defining and maintaining "sameness" for digital
content. Consider how rapidly the file formats themselves change (and
break!), as typified by early PDFs and the ongoing evolution of various
audio/video codecs.

In general a hash is still very useful metadata for content, if for
nothing else than verifying integrity after retrieval or transfer. I'd
enjoy seeing it more widely employed for identification also. Maybe when
you get your whole library's e-content store up on p2p....

### Comments ###
* Jakob: MD5 is outdated and one would use a better algorithm such as
[SHA≥2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure\_Hash\_Algorithm).

Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
MD5 was a hash function used in cryptography. Wikipedia has a good
[overview of crypto hash
functions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function) and
properties desirable for them. Most relevant to your question:

> It should be impossible for an adversary to find two messages with
> substantially similar digests; or to infer any useful information
> about the data, given only its digest. Therefore, a cryptographic hash
> function should behave as much as possible like a random function
> while still being deterministic and efficiently computable.

Put differently, MD5 will give two inputs with very similar but unequal
content (1st and 2nd editions of the same thing) *very dissimilar
hashes*. The amount of information you can determine about the input
behind the hash is as low as possible, by design.

This doesn't bode well for anyone trying to learn something about a set
of inputs from their hashes, *and it shouldn't*.

### Comments ###

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
MD5 is officially considered broken, as is SHA-1. SHA-2 is ok for now,
and the winner of the SHA-3 contest is due to be chosen soon.

Peer-to-peer systems that use distributed hash trees for locating items
use cryptographic hashes to generate identifiers for use as hash keys
for locating content. For archival purposes, this is the approach I
wanted to use for SCHMEER (Several Copies Help Make Everything
Eventually Reachable). It's robust and scalable.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Aren't hashes used as identifiers in the LOCKSS (Lots Of Copies Keep
Stuff Safe) system?

