---
title: "What are the internationally accepted legal aspects of scanning library books and making them available for different services?"
layout: default
---
What are the internationally accepted legal aspects of scanning library books and making them available for different services?
=====================
What are the internationally accepted legal aspects of scanning library
books and making them available through different services?

National laws differ, but what are the acceptable worldwide legal best
practices to scan books and make them available to students?

I have understood so far that:

​a) scanning itself is not a problem b) making the scans available for
search only - like google-scholar - is also not a problem - I am
assuming this is following the google law-suite. c) transformational use
- e.g. for blind people - is another allowed utilization for scanned
books - as they can be utilized by special software for blind. d)
Fair-use - e.g. use for the sole purpose of learning and teaching -
should be okay - but seems to be a border case.

Now, what exactly is allowed by the fair-use policy?

Again - I am aware, that national laws differ in this aspect - but are
there some common international accepted policies/standards/frameworks?

ChrisZZ

### Comments ###
* mgkrebbs: Even in the U.S., your assumptions presume something that is not
settled. Right now there is a (years-long) class action lawsuit against
Google for doing (a), and the outcome is not really predictable. Most
organizations (e.g. libraries and Hathi Trust) are avoiding doing any
scanning of in-copyright (or unclear copyright) works because of the
ambiguity.


Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
This is a tricky question because, as you note, national laws differ.
The short answer is "There are no globally-accepted guidelines."

Fair use, on which much of this activity relies in the U.S., is a unique
construction of U.S. law. Fair dealing and other such systems have
notable differences, although some (but not all) countries do have
specific statutory carve-outs for education or the blind which may or
may not be enforced in practice. International treaties covering these
issues may be rejected or signed but ignored by specific countries.

Your assumptions are mostly true for the U.S. but not necessarily true
on an international level, and there are no global, 100% solutions.

Questions about best practices are best asked and answered on a
country-by-country basis. Legal advice regarding a specific plan, if
desired, must be obtained from a lawyer or similar legal practitioner
(depending on country).

### Comments ###

Answer by Casey
----------------
I doubt you'll have any answers to "What *exactly* is allowed by the
fair-use policy." For the best answers, consult a lawyer. Even they,
however, may have trouble as I understand fair-use is a grey area.
Believe me, I wish there were an easy answer to this issue, even just in
the U.S.

As a librarian and *not a lawyer*, let me point you to some documents
which I found useful when grappling with similar issues:

From OCLC, [Triangle Research Libraries Network Publishes Intellectual
Property Rights Strategy for Digitization Based on "Well-intentioned
Practice" Document](http://www.oclc.org/research/news/2011/02-15.html)

Related, ["Well-intentioned Practice for Putting Digitized Collections
of Unpublished Materials Online" Endorsed as a Standard by the Society
of American
Archivists](http://www.oclc.org/research/news/2011/10-03a.html)

And the invaluable Cornell Copyright Information Center -
copyright.cornell.edu/resources/ (not enough points to link)

### Comments ###

