---
title: "Are post-graduate certificates in library science practical/useful?"
layout: default
---
Are post-graduate certificates in library science practical/useful?
=====================
While many universities with library science programs offer
post-graduate certificates (such as San Jose State post-master's
certificate, Certificate of Graduate Studies from South Carolina,
Specialist in Library and Information Science from Indiana,
Post-master's certificate of graduate studies at Clarion), a literature
review does not yield information on the practicality or usefulness of
the certificate -- do any jobs require post-graduate study and do any
jobs pay extra for such? May I have help locating current, scholarly
articles on post-graduate certificates?

Melissa

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">professional-development</li><li class="tag">education</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Can you please modify your question by giving some examples of
post-graduate certificates in library science and making the title a
full sentence?
* Ashley Nunn: What sort of information are you looking for? Successful careers with
that sort of certificate? What would make it practical or useful in your
eyes? Could you give examples of the sorts of programs you are trying to
find literature on? What sort of literature would be acceptable?
* Joe: I was debating on applying one just so that I could take a few courses
that'd be useful in my current job, that I didn't take when I was
working on my masters ... does that count as 'practical' ?
* Melissa: Yes, Joe, I think so. My "specialization" of my MLS doesn't really apply
to my current job, so I'm wondering about the same kind of approach.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Here are a few:

Moran, R. F. (2003). ALA/APA post-master’s certification: An interview
with Tom Wilding. *Library Administration and Management*, 17 (1), 4-5.

Ingalls, E., & Sivak, A. (2005). [Post-master’s certification: A case
for responsive
education](http://books.google.com/books?id=dI8Wl3xCJIMC&pg=PA125&lpg=PA125&dq=Post-master%E2%80%99s%20certification%3a%20A%20case%20for%20responsive%20education&source=bl&ots=38vh0oq2Ii&sig=rLxTV20wptkZC0lQ_CY6gFjr_CY&hl=en&sa=X&ei=TVedUfPuA42I0QGpqYBI&a;ved=0CEoQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=Post-master%E2%80%99s%20certification%3a%20A%20case%20for%20responsive%20education&f=false).
In S. E. Cleyle & L. M. McGillis (Eds.), *Last one out turn off the
lights: Is this the future of American and Canadian libraries?*
(pp.125-137). Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press.

Bell, J. (2012). [Certification of Librarians: An Unproven
Demand.](http://www.academia.edu/1610958/Certification_of_Librarians_An_Unproven_Demand)
*SLIS Student Research Journal*, 2 (1), Article 35.

### Comments ###
* Melissa: Thanks, Mary Jo -- especially for the last one!

