---
title : How to arrange books where books can belong to more than one category
---
How to arrange books where books can belong to more than one category
=====================
How can I arrange a book (or other physical object) collection, where
books can belong to more than one category?

With online information, I can give an article more than one "tag", and
use these as facets to find it. The article can belong in more than one
taxonomy at once.

With books or other objects, I am limited to choosing only one place.
For example, with a book about history of science, I need to place it
with the science books or with the history books, but I can't do both
unless I have two copies of the book. In reality, I could easily
classify a book under three or more categories.

Without indexing the entire collection, how can I arrange my book
collection so that the books can be found by browsing readers with
different interests?

johntait.org

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Generally you choose the subject that the book is MOST about. In your
example, the book is more about science than about history, so you would
probably put it in science. Most books when published have a cataloging
page in them (on the reverse of the title page) that is usually prepared
by the Library of Congress prior to publication. It will list the
subjects of the book in order of prominence. There is usually an
assigned Dewey classification as well which will indicate where a
professional cataloger thought the book should go (science being in the
500s and history in the 900s). If there is no cataloging page, you can
find cataloging information through the World Catalog (WorldCat) or the
Library of Congress for most books.

In your own collection, you are of course not bound to the decisions of
the catalogers who have pre-classified the book. In a library, the
cataloger on staff may choose to move books to a location that makes
more sense to the public being served. For example, books about space
are in the 500s (science), books about rockets are in the 600s
(engineering) and books about travel to extraterrestrial places are in
the 900s (travel). A browser might expect all these books to be
together, so a public library will often put them all in science so they
are together on the shelf.

It is an imperfect system to be sure, especially since the Dewey Decimal
system predates a lot of current technology and has built-in biases
based on the time it was created.

### Comments ###
* Joe: And place where it was created -- in the U.S., so the [200s
(religion)](http://dewey.info/class/2/about) are more weighted towards
Christian religions, with other major religions of the time crammed into
the 290s, including broad categories like 'Religions of Indian origin'
(294). Compare to the [Q section](http://www.iskoi.org/doc/colon.htm\#Q)
of [Colon
Classification](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colon\_classification).

Answer by Joe
----------------
Although Mary Jo is correct, there's one major situation when you would
*not* categorize items by what they're most about --

When that's the reason for collection in the first place.

Take for instance a library on trains. Technically, using Dewey, you
could still classify them in [625 (engineering of railroads &
roads)](http://dewey.info/class/625/2009-07/about.en) vs. [385 (commerce
: railway
transportation)](http://dewey.info/class/385/e23/2012-10-24/about.en),
and there's range within those categories. ... but you might decide
instead to focus on some secondary attributes instead -- maybe country
or region that the book focus on ... or time period if you're more
interested in the history of trains.

The important thing is that if you're shelving for yourself, you just
have to put them where *you* are likely to think about when you're
trying to find them again. You might decide that Dewey works for you, or
[BISAC](http://www.bisg.org/what-we-do-0-136-bisac-subject-headings-list-major-subjects---2009-edition.php),
or some specialized taxonomy, or come up with one yourself.

Personally, I have a lot of cookbooks ... so I focus on how I think of
the cookbooks. I have beginner cookbooks (because I specifically collect
those), community cookbooks, more encyclopedic cookbooks (to include the
time-life series that my mom has decided to attempt to fill in for me),
specific regions or cultures (some of which are the community
cookbooks), those that focus on a tool (eg, crockpot) or a specific
result (eg, pancakes, paella, casseroles, cookies) or ingredient (hot
peppers, garlic, chocolate), etc. And I have the bookcase just outside
my kithen that I use more frequently. Which leads to the gardening
books, then the landscaping books, which follows the architecture books.

### Comments ###

