---
title: "How would Stack Exchange itself be catalogued and archived by libraries?"
layout: default
---
How would Stack Exchange itself be catalogued and archived by libraries?
=====================
Would there be a DOI-like system used? Or would something else be used?

InquilineKea

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">internet</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is a very theoretical question - what need would a library have for
an archive/catalogue of Stack Exchange?
* Shog9: I think you need to expand this a bit. Archiving digital collections
such as a Stack Exchange site is an interesting topic, but answering the
"how" requires a bit more information on what your goals are for the
archive.
* Joe: DOIs? hell no (not unless you've got someone minting free DOIs for you)
* Paul Wheatley: Surely this is an important question? If the community invests effort in
building a valuable resource here, preserving it effectively for the
long term (probably via a web archiving approach) would seem a sensible
measure \*in case\* Stack Exchange goes out of business.
* Shog9: @Paul: that's what I'm getting at - there are a host of different
concerns with a project like this. FWIW, preventing the information from
being lost is part of why all posts here are required to be [Creative
Commons licensed](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) and
why we provide regular [public
archives](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/creative-commons-data-dump-jan-11/)
for graduated sites. If you were planning to take that and making it
accessible in some other location, or via some other format, it would
make for an interesting question...
* Jakob: See [this
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/153/what-attempts-if-any-have-been-made-to-catalogue-and-archive-threads-on-intern)
about archiving threads on internet forums.


