---
title: "Looking for a collection management system for a small museum collection owned by a library"
layout: default
---
Looking for a collection management system for a small museum collection owned by a library
=====================
My library has a small museum with approximately 1,200 artifacts in the
collection. We currently use an Access database to manage them. Could
anyone speak to their experiences with a museum collection management
system? (Pros and cons welcome.) We're looking at both open source and
proprietary systems.

amedinasmith

### Comments ###
* Henrik Hansen: A counter-question could be: Why need to replace it? What can of things
would you need that the Access database doesn't provide?
* AaronC: A little disambiguation may be helpful here. Are you looking for a new
database management system (DBMS) to manage the data behind the scenes
or are you looking for a content management system (CMS) to publish the
data into a browser. Or are you looking for an online public catalog
(OPAC) to provide a searchable access point for your collection?
* amedinasmith: @HenrikHansen We could just redevelop it in Access. There isn't anything
super complex. What we are looking for though is vendor or developer
community support.
* amedinasmith: @AaronCollie We are looking for a back end collection management system
for now (basically a dbms designed for museums). It may be used in the
future as an access point for users, but for now its just to manage the
collection.


Answer by jeff
----------------
Two software packages with which I have had some degree of experience
are Omeka and PastPerfect.

Omeka
-----

[Omeka](http://omeka.org/) is not strictly a museum collection
management system, but a useful tool for presenting museum and archive
collections online.

Omeka is open source (GPLv3 license) and written in PHP. There are a
growing number of [Omeka Themes and Plugins](http://omeka.org/add-ons/)
available which extend the base install in various ways.

If you don't have a suitable system on which to install Omeka, you can
purchase a hosting plan from [omeka.net](http://www.omeka.net/). There's
a free Basic plan, then four additional subscription tiers ranging from
\$49/year to \$999/year.

You can add a number of different forms of metadata to records (see
[this example record](http://localhistory.tadl.org/items/show/10)), and
there are also plugins which give you the ability to generate reports
from items in Omeka. This could be useful if you have inventory
requirements.

Since Omeka is built on top of an SQL database (MySQL) which has ODBC
connectors available, you could even use your existing expertise to
create/adapt Microsoft Access reports that directly query the Omeka
database.

Omeka excels at its online presentation of items, but may lack other
traditional collection management system features which you may require.

If your collection can be well represented by photographs (or if your
collection is mainly images), I would strongly suggest you give Omeka
consideration.

PastPerfect
-----------

My experience with PastPerfect is mostly from the perspective of an
interested observer. I was involved in some technical consultation
surrounding a grant to obtain/upgrade PastPerfect, and the local history
center uses PastPerfect to make some of their collection available
online. I've perused the manuals and made use of the public facing parts
of the hosted web services but not utilized the software that museum
personnel would use.

PastPerfect is by the vendor's own claims the "most popular" museum
collection management software, with "over 8000" clients. Its pricing is
known for being within reach of many small to medium museums.

List pricing from PastPerfect's website is

-   \$870 for the basic program
-   \$385 for the ability to add images to records

For making your catalog available online:

-   \$285 for the PastPerfect-Online software
-   \$440 per year for PastPerfect-Online hosting (first 10,000 records)

There is also the option of purchasing their Virtual Exhibit product
(\$445 list price).

Virtual Exhibit lets you build exhibits and host them on a web server
you provide.

PastPerfect-Online allows you to put your entire collection online, and
is hosted by PastPerfect for an annual fee.

The following record is hosted via PastPerfect-Online: [Postcard of the
Ladies Library on Cass
Street](http://grandtraverse.pastperfect-online.com/36237cgi/mweb.exe?request=record;id=45035304-EB3B-47C2-ABCF-684597346422;type=102)

PastPerfect includes some more traditional collection management system
features that Omeka does not focus on, and also includes membership and
donor management functions to facilitate fundraising.

Some features require you to pay additional license fees, such as:

-   inventory
-   support for multiple users on a network.

Conclusion
----------

Based only on my personal experience:

If traditional collection management system features are a must,
consider PastPerfect.

If your goal is to present your collection online, consider Omeka.

If you're looking for both, I'd look into the experiences others have
had with exporting data from PastPerfect to Omeka. See the [Omeka
forums](http://omeka.org/forums/) and the [omeka-dev mailing
list](http://groups.google.com/group/omeka-dev) for further details.

If you have development expertise or a budget to sponsor work to be
contributed back to Omeka, you might consider adding the features you
require which Omeka does not currently have.

### Comments ###
* amedinasmith: Thanks Jeff. We are certainly looking for traditional collection
management features so we'll look into PastPerfect. We may, in the
future, want to incorporate our back-end catalog into the website so it
is good to know that we can do that w/ that product. Thanks again.

Answer by user580
----------------
you may have a look at Museums Sites -
[http://www.museumssites.com](http://www.museumssites.com). For a low
monthly subscription fee, it offers both collection management as well
as integrated web publishing. What's fairly different about it that it
tries to look at the entire set of information of an institution, rather
that simply its collection. That means also exhibitions, events, visitor
information, educational activities and the rest.

There is a free trial and a free 4-hour seminar/tutorial to get you
started. It's a new product, so it's on promotional prices for the first
few months.

I hope this helps. Best, Cristiano

### Comments ###

