---
title: "What are the privacy laws that deal with patron records?"
layout: default
---
What are the privacy laws that deal with patron records?
=====================
What laws are in place to protect a patrons information and check out
history? Also related, what do these laws say regarding families and
accessing or using each others accounts? Something along the lines of a
husband picking up a wife's books that were on hold for her -- I realize
some of this comes down to individual library policies.

KatieR

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">circulation</li><li class="tag">patron-management</li><li class="tag">laws</li><li class="tag">privacy</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This will vary country to country and so on - is there a particular area
you are interested in?
* KatieR: I was under the impression that there were some national laws. I used to
work in a college study abroad office and I remember there being laws
stating that since our participants were over the age of 18, we couldn't
share the information with their parents. I cannot remember the name of
the law though! I am located in Pennsylvania so anything relating to PA
would be great.
* David Rothman: KatieR- There are state laws re: privacy generally which many libraries
interpret as applying specifically to the privacy of library patrons,
but I'm not aware of any state law that specifically addresses library
patron privacy.
* jeff: @KatieR The law you describe in your comment sounds like the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). It does not have broad
applicability to all US libraries, but is commonly encountered in
academic environments (where it affects the entire institution, not just
the library).


Answer by David Rothman
----------------
My understanding is that there are very, very few laws mandating patron
privacy- and those would almost entirely be local.

Rather, it is a shared value of the profession, necessary in order to
give patrons the confidence that they can seek any information they want
(within reason and legality).

Also an official ALA position/policy:
[http://www.ala.org/Template.cfm?Section=interpretations&Template=/ContentManagement/ContentDisplay.cfm&ContentID=31883](http://www.ala.org/Template.cfm?Section=interpretations&Template=/ContentManagement/ContentDisplay.cfm&ContentID=31883)

### Comments ###

Answer by jeff
----------------
In the United States, laws regarding privacy of library records are
typically established at the state level. The American Library
Association maintains a list of [State Privacy Laws Regarding Library
Records](http://www.ala.org/offices/oif/ifgroups/stateifcchairs/stateifcinaction/stateprivacy)

Since you asked about Pennsylvania:

Pennsylvania Unconsolidated Statutes Chapter 24 Article IV § 428 states:

> Records related to the circulation of library materialwhich contain
> the names or other personally identifying details regarding the users
> of the State Library or any local library which is established or
> maintained under any law of the Commonwealth or the library of any
> university, college or educational institution chartered by the
> Commonwealth or the library of any public school or branch reading
> room, deposit station or agency operated in connection therewith,
> shall be confidential and shall not be made available to anyone except
> by a court order in a criminal proceeding.
>
> (428 added June 27, 1984, P.L.431, No.90)

See
[http://www.legis.state.pa.us/WU01/LI/LI/US/HTM/1961/0/0188..HTM](http://www.legis.state.pa.us/WU01/LI/LI/US/HTM/1961/0/0188..HTM)

This is not to say that privacy of library records is not subject to
other laws or regulations at the state or other level, not to mention
the policies of individual libraries.

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Many states treat library privacy the same as medical privacy. You
wouldn't want sensitive medical information left on your answering
machine for anyone to hear, the same goes for your library books on
hold. However, libraries don't necessarily enforce this consistently. If
a husband comes to pick up his wife's books, it is often allowed. (Even
though there are many tales of the husband picking up a divorce book for
his wife!)

In California, the law was recently changed:

> "The people of the State of California do enact as follows: SECTION 1.
> Section 6267 of the Government Code is amended to read: 6267. All
> patron use records of any library which is in whole or in part
> supported by public funds shall remain confidential and shall not be
> disclosed by a public agency, or private actor that maintains or
> stores patron use records on behalf of a public agency, to any person,
> local agency, or state agency except as follows: (a) By a person
> acting within the scope of his or her duties within the administration
> of the library. (b) By a person authorized, in writing, by the
> individual to whom the records pertain, to inspect the records. (c) By
> order of the appropriate superior court. As used in this section, the
> term “patron use records” includes the following: (1) Any written or
> electronic record, that is used to identify the patron, including, but
> not limited to, a patron’s name, address, telephone number, or e-mail
> address, that a library patron provides in or become eligible to
> borrow or use books and other materials. (2) Any written record or
> electronic transaction that identifies a patron’s borrowing
> information or use of library information resources, including, but
> not limited to,database search records, borrowing records, class
> records,and any other personally identifiable uses of library
> resources information requests, or inquiries. This section shall not
> apply to statistical reports of patron use nor to records of fines
> collected by the lrary."
> [http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/11-12/bill/sen/sb\_0401-0450/sb\_445\_bill\_20110712\_chaptered.pdf](http://info.sen.ca.gov/pub/11-12/bill/sen/sb_0401-0450/sb_445_bill_20110712_chaptered.pdf)

Interestingly enough, it allows tighter restrictions that go beyond
simple check-out records (database searching, etc), but also allows
written permission for another person (the husband in the above
scenario).

### Comments ###

