---
title : Is library-as-publisher a viable option for small libraries?
---
Is library-as-publisher a viable option for small libraries?
=====================
In the perpetual struggle to be relevant and better serve our community,
I'd like my small public library to consider publishing/serving e-books
written by local authors, but I don't see any models coming out of small
libraries. This seems like a great way to help young and unpublished
authors find an audience. What are some of the problems to anticipate:
server space, traffic, DRM, etc?

MariBar

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Could you say more about how you envision this process working? It's
okay to blue-sky here; I just can't really answer cogently until I
understand better what you're trying to accomplish. Thanks!
* MariBar: Since we already largely redirect our patrons to a separate Website for
downloadable audio and ebooks (Overdrive managed), I'm thinking about a
CMS site where local writers could create an account & upload books &
patrons could download their books (authenticating with their card
numbers). Legally, would we need to set intellectual property agreements
in place before authors join? Would posting the books as unencrypted
files be irresponsible? Are there other risks I'm not anticipating?


Answer by dsalo
----------------
There's a book for that, amazingly enough! It's called [The Librarian's
Guide to Micropublishing: helping patrons and communities use free and
low-cost publishing tools to tell their
stories](http://www.worldcat.org/title/librarians-guide-to-micropublishing-helping-patrons-and-communities-use-free-and-low-cost-publishing-tools-to-tell-their-stories/oclc/768041858&referer=brief_results).
Highly recommended.

### Comments ###
* MariBar: Thank you! This looks like a good low-budget starting place.

Answer by jambina
----------------
Yes, definitely.

Check out [iStreet Press](http://www.saclibrary.org/?pageId=1599) at
Sacramento Public Library. They received a grant to do buy an Espresso
Book Machine, but are also offering courses on a number of other
publishing-related topics to their public.

A big YES to Walt Crawford's
[book](http://www.worldcat.org/title/librarians-guide-to-micropublishing-helping-patrons-and-communities-use-free-and-low-cost-publishing-tools-to-tell-their-stories/oclc/768041858&referer=brief_results)
- cited above - which gets into the nitty gritty. I was fortunate enough
to be part of a panel at South By Southwest Interactive looking at
library-based publishing, where Nate Hill floated a few interesting (and
public library focused) ideas about publishing. Slidedeck and audio
[here](http://jambina.com/blog/wow-that-worked/).

### Comments ###
* MariBar: Thanks! I'd heard of Sacramento's iStreet but didn't know how to scale
it down in an 8-person library. The slideshare is great, especially with
audio describing the all-important catalog integration.

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
When considering this possibility, do not forget your library's
collection policy. If you are going to publish local authors, you will
need to extend yuor collection policy to cover what your local folks are
writing. What if someone is writing stuff that is blatantly offensive to
others in the community? What if it is grammatically horrific and
without any literary merit whatsoever? What if it purports to be
nonfiction but is full of falsehoods? What if it is over-the-top
zealotry of one flavor or another? These are things that you would not
normally have in your collection because they would lack the reviews to
warrant their inclusion. You get into a dicey area saying you will
publish one person's work and not another's. Are you going to accept all
work or are you going to set standards, and if so, who will enforce
them?

This is not to suggest that you shouldn't proceed, only that you really
need to think through your policy ahead of time.

### Comments ###

