---
title: "What differentiates libraries, archives and museums when they put collections online?"
layout: default
---
What differentiates libraries, archives and museums when they put collections online?
=====================
As more and more museums, libraries and archives provide access to
content online it seems to blur the different roles each of these
institutions played. Libraries create virtual exhibits, museums and
galleries are providing bulk access to large collections of images etc.
To what extent to these institutions converge into largely the same
thing on the web and to what extent do their brick and mortar
distinctions remain particularly significant? I realize that the
physical forms of these institutions are going to continue to be very
distinct, but I am curious if the virtual forms are becoming something
in between all three.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
One common difference is reuse permissions automatically granted to
end-users; museums tend to be least liberal, libraries most, with
archives somewhere in the middle. The differences often aren't as great
as they might be, considering.

For more, see [Kristin Eschenfelder's IMLS
report](http://digital.library.wisc.edu/1793/38251) on the subject.

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: Thanks for sharing the report, with that noted, it seems like things are
changing for museums. For example, NGA's launch of their images site
https://images.nga.gov/ and a lot of the GLAM wiki use cases came out of
museums http://outreach.wikimedia.org/wiki/GLAM/Case\_studies lastly,
there seems to be a somewhat big move toward more museums exposing
content and data via APIs
http://museum-api.pbworks.com/w/page/21933420/Museum%C2%A0APIs I'm
curious if this represents a change on who is most liberal.
* dsalo: Good to hear. Perhaps Dr. Eschenfelder will take another look. :)

Answer by Fisher
----------------
I think an important consideration in the differences (digitally or
otherwise) between libraries, archives, and museums is their mission
statements.

MassMOCA:
[http://www.massmoca.org/mission.php](http://www.massmoca.org/mission.php)
Their goals is to showcase art (visual & performance), followed by
education, then economic & commercial development. The focus, then, is
sharing the art.

UMass Amherst Libraries:
[http://www.library.umass.edu/about-the-libraries/mission-statement/](http://www.library.umass.edu/about-the-libraries/mission-statement/)
on the other hand considers education their primary focus.

The Springfield, MA City Libraries:
[http://www.springfieldlibrary.org/board/bylawsrev.html](http://www.springfieldlibrary.org/board/bylawsrev.html)
see their role as a community source for literacy, technology &
information--broad dissemination of information as well as materials
with a wide & general audience.

The Internet Archive:
[http://archive.org/about/about.php](http://archive.org/about/about.php)
focuses on cultural preservation. Granted, IA is a completely digital
collection, not an archive that exists in brick & mortar.

So while any of these can and are creating digital presences, their
goals will most likely align with their mission statements. However,
overlaps in goal & subject are inevitable, which may make them seem
quite similar.

### Comments ###

Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I think the Web does blur the distinctions a bit, which is why we are
seeing efforts like the [Wikipedia
GLAM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aGLAM) and
[Europeana](http://pro.europeana.eu/web/guest/about/network/members). It
is a bit of a generalization, but libraries have focused primarily on
books, of which there are (typically) many copies, often with stringent
market driven copyright and licensing constraints. Archives on the other
hand are typically populated with unique items, that have somewhat
different (and varied) restrictions on distribution. I think archival
materials are of increasing interest as cultural heritage organizations
engage with the Web because of their uniqueness, and the opportunity
that the Web offers for publishing the content for researchers around
the world. The line does blur a bit as books get older, more rare, and
fall into the public domain.

### Comments ###

Answer by trevormunoz
----------------
Another important distinction between libraries, archives, and museums
that originates in their non-digital manifestations that persists in
their online presences has to do with the relationship to
users/visitors. Libraries have developed a tradition of extensive user
services (reference desks, subject guides, bibliographic instruction) in
which the users information (seeking) needs are the focus of activity
and energy. Whereas, though this is certainly a generalization, archives
have focused on things like provenance and original order---which are
not so much user-focused but materials-focused. Museums it seems have a
different relationship with users/visitors---one perhaps more centered
around exhibits (selected and guided presentations of materials). These
different approaches to serving the user (or even thinking about how to
serve the user) find reflection in these different kinds of institutions
online presences.

### Comments ###

