---
title : What methods are involved in conducting a book talk?
---
What methods are involved in conducting a book talk?
=====================
I have found book talking to be quite challenging. What are methods and
key factors in conducting a successful book talk?

KatieR

### Comments ###
* Robert Cartaino: This is a very broad question. If you find book talks challenging, isn't
it better to ask about what you tried and the \*specific\* challenges
you faced? That way users are not left guessing what information will
actually help you. I'd suggest asking again with a much more
tightly-focused and detailed question. You'll have a better experience
with this site.
* KatieR: It is broad, but for somebody who maybe has only attempted it once,
never at all, or has no clue what a book talk even is then I believe
this question is valid the way it is currently stated.
* Robert Cartaino: Have a look at the faq: http://libraries.stackexchange.com/faq\#dontask.
This is a very young site. I'm here to help guide everyone to make the
best possible use of this site. While your question might help introduce
the topic, this is more of a "conversation starter" than one that would
be considered a good question for this type of site. Your post would
likely be closed once the site becomes better established, so I'm more
interested in showing everyone \*how\* to ask these questions rather
than closing it outright... a question which is likely better suited for
a chat room or discussion forum.
* KatieR: Just so I am clear, it would be preferable to have many different
questions addressing different parts of book talking than have one
question that deals with the entire process? In (public) libraries
(based on my experiences), a lot if it is learned on the job and getting
strategies from those who have been in the job for a lot longer is how
new people to the profession learn how to do things like book talks or
storytimes.
* Robert Cartaino: Essentially, yes. But that's not to say you should round up dozens of
fine-grained question to post them \*en masse.\* You learn by doing, and
the best way to use this Q&A is in conjunction with that learning... by
asking about \*actual\*, problems you encounter in your day to day work.
There are very likely experts here who had that \*exact\* problem; stuff
that's not being productively addresses anywhere else, except the the
hard-earned experience and long-tailed expertise you find on sites like
this. That's where this system will excel.
* Matt: I don't mean to soudn clueless (although in this site I am) but I am
only here becuase when Unshelved Answers went down this was the site
they picked to migrate to and now it finally is. And from what i
rememebr over in that particular place this woudl have been a welcome
question and the discussion would have been welcome as well. Is that not
the case here? Do you not seek some discussion?


Answer by Matt
----------------
That depends on your audience and your style. A lot of people like to
book talk the plot of the book until they hit a certain point where they
stop and then do "the if you want to know what happens then check out"
so and so.

I do this in high school and the teachers who request it are trying to
get a class of 9th graders to pick an outside reading book so my method
concerns speed as well as making the students want the books.

Some books I directly challenge the kids by picking it up looking at it
and then saying no none of you would ever read this. That then pulls
calls from the kids what what is it and always one kids will want to
read it.

Sometimes I offer them future rewards for reading a particular book. I
sell *Wuthring Heights* by describing it as simply one of the great
romances of all time. That sells a lot of the girls but the boys require
another step. For them I tell them that when they get to college and
they meet that cute girl at a party having read *Wuthering Heights* will
put them one step closer to their goal.

I also like to go the RIYL (Recommended if you like) rout. I will book
talk the Shining (simple book talk idea. All the kids still watch
Friends so I talk about the episode where The Shining was hidden in the
freezer because it was so scary). When I am done book talking The
Shining I will say if you like the idea of being scared and then
recommend Joe Hill or other horror authors.

The key is simple. Be yourself. If you never read the book admit it and
explain the the audience why they might like it anyway. Establish your
bonafides. I make sure the kids know I will not recommend books I do not
like but starting off with a book talk of the *Twilight* that makes it
quite clear I do not think they should read it. It makes the students
laugh and establishes that I have read their books and know what they
might or might not like.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jenny Arch
----------------
1.  Keep it short and to the point. A teen librarian I worked with in
    the past kept hers to 75 words when she visited the high school.

2.  Have a hook for each book. Whether it's an intriguing premise, a
    unique character, or whatever it was you loved most about the book,
    focus on that - your enthusiasm should show through.

3.  DO NOT give away the endings!

4.  If possible, read every book you are talking about, or at least read
    the first chapter to get a sense of the author's style.

5.  Be prepared with lots of "if you like that, try this" read-alikes.

6.  Don't be judgmental. The important thing is for kids/teens/your
    audience to find a book they enjoy reading, whether it's Twilight or
    Wuthering Heights.

7.  Include challenged/banned books. Controversy can be a point of
    interest. Use your best judgment, of course (will your library
    administration back you up if parents get upset? is there a policy
    in place?).

8.  Remember it can take some time to build relationships with teachers
    and bond with students; they might not automatically trust your
    opinions and recommendations, but don't give up, and do listen to
    any specific, useful feedback.



### Comments ###
* Matt: Number 7 totally works. I always book talk Lamb by Chris Moore by
basically begging them to not take the book if they think for even one
second a book that is completely offensive to an entire religion will
upset their parents. The kids fight to get it.

