---
title: "What is the most effective way to end a storytime?"
layout: default
---
What is the most effective way to end a storytime?
=====================
I am not a singer and I'm not a huge fingerplay person so I have found
it challenging to find a way to successfully and succinctly end a
storytime. Other than songs and fingerplays, what is an effective way to
bring storytime to a close?

KatieR

### Comments ###


Answer by MariBar
----------------
It very much depends on the age group (and somewhat on your resources),
but I've always been involved in storytimes that end with a craft. You
end the story then propose the craft as it relates to the story and
provide direction in creating the craft; then everyone can work at their
own pace and leave when they need to. I usually take the craft time to
wander around and interact with the children and their caregivers:
reinforcing skills, referencing the story and building relationships.

### Comments ###

Answer by Debrarian
----------------
**Songs and fingerplays** are, of course, classic and effective
storytime closers. But! If those aren't your thing, here are some
thoughts:

**Music**: You could play a recorded song. Kids could be encouraged to
dance or to follow the motions in the song, or it could simply be
relaxing lap time. When the music is over, storytime is over.

**Stamp or sticker**: Sometimes I end storytime with a hand stamp (or
sticker). This gives the kids an opportunity to practice the skill of
forming a line (useful later in school) and gives me a chance to chat
briefly with each child.

**Bubbles**: Some folks finish by blowing bubbles. This is especially
popular with 2- and 3-year-olds. To avoid a stampede, it can be helpful
to form kids into a circle and blow bubbles toward each child. Some
people sing "Goodbye Bubble" during this (it helps create a sense of
ending, especially when the song stops), but you could skip the song,
simply speak the words, have the parents sing it, or play a recorded
version. (To the tune of *Frere Jacques*: Goodbye bubbles, goodbye
bubbles; Time to go, time to go; I will help you, I will help you; With
a blow, with a blow.")

**Toys, scarves or activities**: Some storytimes end by transitioning
into a free play period, sometimes with coloring sheets, crafts, toys,
or scarves to play with. I like what MariBar said about this allowing
time for us to interact with families.

**Rhyme**: What about a closing rhyme that is not a fingerplay or song,
but simply spoken? A search for "storytime closing rhymes" (or
"storytime opening closing rhymes") turns up a variety. (You don't care
for fingerplays, but do you mind action rhymes that involve larger motor
skills like clapping or patting one's knees? Just establishing a rhythm
with their bodies tends to gather the kids' attention and create a sense
of ritual.)

**Ritual**: I think the main thing is to create a sense of ritual, so
that children recognize a familiar cue that storytime is about to end.
Everyone could wave goodbye; you could sound a gong or ring a bell (or
all the kids could); you could all pretend to go to sleep; you could
review together the storytime's highlights (good for reinforcing
narrative skills) and then all declare "Ta-da!" ... anything!

### Comments ###

