---
title : Librarians' experiences in communicating with IT departments effectively
---
Librarians' experiences in communicating with IT departments effectively
=====================
I'm preparing for a conference presentation on librarians' experiences
communicating with IT departments effectively. There's not much
scholarly literature on the subject, and I suspect most librarians learn
through trial and error. I would love input from fellow librarians, so
that my presentation is not based solely on my experiences -- *what
proven, reliable methods of reporting have you discovered?* Have you
found some things ineffective (especially if they are funny!)?

Melissa

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Melissa, I think this is a great question, but it may help you get a
better answer if you narrow it down to something specific rather than
asking for a list of things.
* Melissa: Edit is in italics. Do you think that's specific enough? The information
I'm looking for is how librarians handle computer issues that have to be
reported to IT.
* jonsca: Sorry, now I should have been more specific, hehe, I meant more the
"what...do you find effective". It's prompting everyone for their
opinion on the matter, and makes the question more subjective. Giving
another measure of success, such as "what is a proven, reliable method
of reporting which minimizes turnaround time" or something to that
effect makes it more answerable.
* Melissa: Better? I appreciate your help, jonsca
* jonsca: You're doing a great job with it. See [this blog
post](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/09/good-subjective-bad-subjective/)
for some examples of "good subjective" questions. It goes into more of
what I was getting at.


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
Maybe this is taken for granted but a ticketing system that both the
librarians and the IT folks have access to, and like to use is
essential. It provides visibility into issues/requests and helps people
monitor the progress of their work. They also provide some uniformity to
the way issues are reported, which can help in planning.

### Comments ###
* Erin White: I'll second this. A ticketing system empowers users, helps systems
departments triage and track problems, and is a transparent way for all
to keep abreast of open issues. Highly recommend.

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
Having been on both sides of this sort of thing, helping users and
asking for help, I think the biggest thing is about clearly explaining
exactly what you thought should be happening and exactly what isn't
happening without bringing in all kinds of extraneous detail. In this
sense, it ends up having a lot to do with imagining what it is that
might be the problem and first trying to isolate and make that problem
reproducible.

All this said, there are some very real basic vocabulary problems that
can come up. I remember once when I spent about five minutes explaining
what "drag and drop" meant to a guy who wanted to use Zotero. My hope is
that he is now dragging and dropping things all over the place.

Similarly, a friend, who works in IT for a school district recently had
a user who reported that they couldn't get on the school website from
home. Initial questioning revealed that the user could not access any
web pages from home. Further questioning revealed that the user did not
have an internet service provider. They had a school given laptop and
they thought since the internet is wireless these days that the school
laptop would just get that wireless from their house.

All this is to say that IT people in a support role are going to be
constantly trying to gauge where you are at in the continuum of computer
wisdom. The more specific and detailed information you can give, ideally
with information about how you tried a few different ways and can
clearly reproduce your problem, the more likely they can help you
quickly. Keep in mind that they need to figure out if you are someone
who has no idea about computers, someone who needs to be taught drag and
drop or who needs to have the nature of internet service providers
explained to them.

### Comments ###
* ranti: I agree with this. Based on experience at my library, meeting with the
IT folks and hammering down vocabularies, expectations, and formalizing
communication process really helped in smooth things up.

Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
When I collect information for this purpose I try to keep the questions
limited:

-   What were you trying to do?
-   How did you do it?
-   What happened instead?

It's not clear how much information you are trying to collect for your
IT staff, but these few questions give you a sound basis from which you
might probe further (you can probe further like you might do a reference
interview).

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: I've seen a similar set of three questions: What did you do to tell the
computer what you wanted? What did you expect would happen? What
happened instead?

Answer by Joe
----------------
As someone who actually works in IT (albeit, with a degree from a
library school), I can tell you that even communication between
different IT departments (our group + the networking group + the
security group) can be rather problematic.

When reporting computer problems, the *most important* thing, in my
opinion, is:

-   What did you do to trigger the problem? (even if it's 'I turned on
    my computer' ... you did *something* to trigger the problem)
-   What response did you get? (if it gave a message, give us the
    *exact* string, not 'something about memory')
-   Was it a one-time thing, or can you re-create it?
-   Is it only your computer, or are other people having the problem,
    too?
-   When did it start happening? (and did anything change since then?
    ... and yes, installing a screensaver you found on the internet, or
    opening that email attachment telling you about your winnings in the
    lottery you don't remember entering counts as a change)

'It doesn't work' or 'my computer is slow' is about as useful as going
to a librarian and saying, 'I'm looking for a book'. We need a lot more
information than that. So, for example, good trouble reports:

-   I was looking at (website), and was at (URL), when I tried to click
    on the link titled (title). My computer locked up with no error
    messages, and I had to reboot to clear it. I was using (browser,
    version) on (machine name) running (OS, version), and I believe I
    had (list of applications) open at the time. I tried it after
    rebooting, and it locked up again.

-   I was using (application), and I tried to use (feature) in the
    (menu) menu. It gave me a message (*exact* error string, not some
    paraphrase). It had worked yesterday with this same document. I
    tried other documents, and they don't complain, but this one always
    does.

The problem is that with software, we don't necessarily know what's
important or not, so as Henry said, it's going to be like a reference
interview, as they try to get various bits of information from you to
try to narrow down the problem.

If you can, learn how to take screen shots on your computer -- on MacOS,
it's command-shift-3 (you'll hear a camera click sound bite) or for a
region, cmd-shift-4 and you'll get cross-hairs to drag a box. For a
window, cmd-shift-4, then spacebar, and it'll give you a icon of a
camera and you can click on the window of interest. In current versions
of MacOS, you'll get a file named 'Screen shot (date) at (time)' on your
desktop.

(but if you take more than one, only send them the one that shows the
error message or the problem ... you can tell 'em you have more pictures
if they need it ... sending 20MB of attachments w/ the trouble ticket
isn't productive)

Then try re-creating the problem (assuming it isn't 'hey, there's smoke
coming from my computer' ... yes, we've gotten those calls before ...
and if you're going to make that call, please make a note of what color
smoke it is, after you've unplugged the machine), and ask your
co-workers if they can re-create it, so we know if it's a localized
problem or not. You can then call in one ticket that something's wrong,
rather than have *everyone* in the department call in that you can't get
to the internet. (yes, we know, and if we didn't have people keep coming
in telling us 'the internet is down', we'd likely be able to get it back
up faster. Yes, we know we said give us 30 minutes 45 minutes ago, but
you have to add 5 minutes for every other person who came in to bug us)

### Comments ###

Answer by MDMarra
----------------
I'm not a librarian, **but** I do happen to be a systems administrator.
There are a few key things that are important:

1.  Don't lie or sugarcoat. If you think you did something to create the
    problem in the first place, disclose this. We'll find it eventually
    and be mad that you made our work harder. If you are forthcoming in
    the beginning, there won't be a problem. It's our job to fix things,
    after all!

2.  Give details or screenshots of any error messages that you see. "It
    stopped working" doesn't tell me anything. While long strings of
    numbers or seemingly random words in error messages might not mean
    much to you, it does to me. Be detailed about any error messages
    that you see.

3.  If the IT department is unable to reproduce the error, because it is
    intermittent, keep a log with the date, time, computer, and specific
    error.

4.  Has anything changed since the last time that the
    computer/application worked normally? Even small things like updates
    matter here.

5.  Are you able to reliably reproduce the problem? If I'm able to
    replicate the issue at will, then I am more able to effectively
    troubleshoot it. If you have an application behaving strangely and
    you can give me the exact steps that I can take to cause the same
    error every time, then I will love you forever.

6.  Keep support contracts on your software! In some work environments,
    the IT department might not be responsible for buying the software
    in use, they only support it. If this is the case, please, please,
    please, pay the yearly fee to keep the support conrtact for that
    software up-to-date. There's nothing worse than discovering what
    appears to be a bug in the actual software and not being able to get
    it fixed because the vendor won't speak with you, since you're not
    under contract.



### Comments ###

Answer by Erin White
----------------
We have developed an internal problem reporting system via the web that
is not as complicated as RT, but still gives our systems department
enough information to triage and tackle a problem. Here are the things
we ask for:

-   Problem Type (PC, Printer, Logon, ILS, Web, Equipment Checkout, or
    Other)
-   Describe your Problem (free text field)
-   Urgency
    -   Whenever, thanks
    -   Moderate, this is a hassle
    -   Important, I can't get my work done
    -   Urgent, impacting many people

-   Your name, phone, e-mail
-   Your library building and department
-   CC (often used to CC listservs)

We encourage non-IT library staff to report problems using this form
rather than a phone call, which allows us to tackle problems faster and
record statistics on our work.

Successful problem reporting also relies on a collegial relationship
between librarians and IT. It can be easy to have an "us vs. them"
attitude about IT, but in the end we share the goal of helping our
users. At our institution some of the librarians *are* IT, and our
systems department has worked hard to foster a culture of openness and
collaboration so non-IT library staff will feel empowered to report
problems. Once non-IT staff understand that their reports are vital to
the continuing success of the organization, they are more likely to
report issues.

### Comments ###

Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
Before sending a request to IT, nail down what you need as best you can.
We can certainly help with this, but the show of effort and respect for
IT's time does wonders. From my perspective:

-   A user who requests "a report on Kindle usage" is a headache and a
    timesink
-   A user who has a handmade spreadsheet of Kindle borrowing last week
    broken down by subject area, and needs an updated report just like
    this emailed to her every Friday is my Favorite Customer and I treat
    her as such


### Comments ###

Answer by Sam K
----------------
I am a librarian with responsibility to liaise with the IT department. I
maintain a prioritized list of medium/long term projects (not tickets)
and meet weekly with IT to discuss their progress. For issues:
absolutely have some kind of ticketing system, although RT, Footprints,
et al leave a lot to be desired for end-user friendliness. Our system
copies (emails) me on tickets so I look for trends, old tickets, etc and
can contact the IT member who is responsible for ticket management
and/or the librarian to clarify information and keep things moving.
Vocabulary is a big problem, but maybe bigger is patience: I remind
folks that while every ticket is important, the IT staff have only so
many hands and hours to work with and we far outnumber them.

### Comments ###
* Joe: If you have specific examples of vocabulary issues, would it be worth
starting a wiki to track them, such as the [one on Cooking.SE to track
different English
dialets](http://cooking.stackexchange.com/questions/784/translating-cooking-terms-between-us-uk-au-ca-nz)
?

Answer by andrea
----------------
in addition to what's written above - some great advice here!, my two
cents: not everyone on the library staff needs to be able to effectively
comminicate with the it staff - both departments already have their own
vocabulary, jargon, time frames, and more importantly, priorities to
make discussions complicated to the point of bad bad headaches. what
seems to work well is to appoint a few different staff members in the
library branch to be an it liason.

### Comments ###

