---
title: "Implementing specific mechanisms to keep the use of reserved books balanced and fair"
layout: default
---
Implementing specific mechanisms to keep the use of reserved books balanced and fair
=====================
Reserve books seem to be a contentious subject (and often subject to
contention!) at many universities and colleges. Since these are often
one-of-a-kinds and sometimes are loaners from professors, there is by
nature a limited supply.

Is there a way to use an add-in module in circulation software so that
the program could keep track of the balance of time between different
patrons and warn desk aides, e.g.,
`"Student had the text for 4 of 10 available hours yesterday, student must wait until 5/25/2012 to check the book out again"`?

Or is there perhaps an easier way to keep track of this rather than the
old fashioned pencil and paper pushpinned into the corkboard?

jonsca

### Comments ###


Answer by KatieR
----------------
My experience is in public libraries, but in the Polaris ILS we are able
to put blocks on patron accounts that pop up when the barcode is
scanned. If there are issues that need to be addressed, staff members
can place one of these blocks. (We normally use it to alert to books
being held or a phone number needs to be updated.) Would something like
this be feasible in an academic setting? It would take an extra step or
two by circulation staff to keep those blocks up to date about used
hours but it might be slightly more effective than pencil and paper
push-pinned to the corkboard.

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Would having limited check-out times help? We have two-hour, in-library
use check outs. When another student needs the item, we put the request
into the circ software as a hold, so that when the first student turns
it in, the second student is notified. Sometimes we get line waiting for
an item, but the holds seems to keep things orderly.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: A hold system might work.
* Melissa: It helps the student who currently has the item as well -- if no one is
waiting, the student can renew the item for another two hours. No
guessing needed.

