---
title: "Method for selecting a "purchasing board" from existing patrons?"
layout: default
---
Method for selecting a "purchasing board" from existing patrons?
=====================
Having a knowledgeable librarian selecting new purchases is almost
always a wise idea. However, additionally allowing certain patrons the
right and privilege to select which books and media the library will
purchase can give a better sample of what will actually be popular.

Would basing the selection of patrons for the board solely on
circulation statistics yield a stable, well-represented board? Selecting
at random might get a better sample of patrons, but it would be
difficult to gauge their interest without more data.

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">collection-development</li><li class="tag">purchasing</li><li class="tag">patron-involvement</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* user130: So far I am keeping an eye out for patrons who actively use the
collection I manage. I then strike up a conversation about them to
discover their needs.
* jonsca: @user130 That's a great idea. How about for a larger population of
people, on the order of hundreds or thousands, though?
* Ben Ostrowsky: I'd love to see this idea applied to non-patrons. There are so many
people who don't find it worthwhile to go to the library. Why not? Is it
too far away/not on a bus line? Is there not enough parking? Is it
easier to watch Netflix than borrow DVDs? Is the library failing to
provide services they value? Do they fear deportation if registering for
a card uncovers an irregularity in their paperwork? In other words:
what's going on with the "dark matter" of our universe? They're out
there, and we're not interacting with them. Why not?
* jonsca: @BenOstrowsky An \*excellent\* point. It still goes back to, though, how
would you select the non-patrons to participate?
* Ben Ostrowsky: That reduces to a solved problem, if you'll pardon my math. There are
shelves bulging with information on sample selection; you could branch
the survey so that the second question begins with either "Excellent!
We'd like to know more about how you view the library and how we could
become worth your time." or "Excellent! We'd like to know about the ways
you use the library already and ask you about some other services you
might not already be using."
* user130: @jonsca We're a very small library and the collection I manage is by far
the smallest one in the library.


Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
At our library, any Patron may suggest books for acquisition through a
request form available directly from the home page.

In his request, the patron can choose if he wants to be noticed about
acquisition, and if he wants to borrow the book once it's available.

The librarian responsible for that field of interest checks the request:

-   The book might already be available at our library, and the patron
    didn't try the catalog or was unsuccessful in his search.
-   The book might be available at a sublibrary, but we might still
    decide to buy another copy.
-   The book might be available at another library in town - we might
    still decide to buy another copy, but chances are the patron gets
    informed where he could find the book.
-   The book might already be in acquisition.

If he decides to buy a copy of that book, the patron gets informed if he
wanted to, and the order gets processed further.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Your answer was great, but the other answer brought up an interesting
point about non-patrons, which I think might be useful to readers of the
question in the future...

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
At PLA this year, Joan Frye Williams and George Needham addressed the
best ways to get community input (Tell Me Something I Don't Know:
Meaningful Community Engagement). Using surveys was bottom of the list
of choices - when you ask individuals for input, you get idiosyncratic
information. Their suggestion, which would apply to collection
development as well as any library service, is to talk to groups of
people or individuals who represent groups of people. Instead of asking
John Doe who happens to come into the library a lot what books he wants,
ask the head of the local home-school association, the chairpersons of
local HOAs, the local environmental group, area PTA presidents, the
president of the Chamber of Commerce, area book clubs. These people can
tell you what is on folks' minds. Individual library users, as Tatjana
noted, will usually submit their personal choices through the library's
request system.

The talk by Joan and George will be presented as a free webinar by
Infopeople on June 12, 2012:
[http://infopeople.org/training/tell-me-something-i-don%E2%80%99t-know](http://infopeople.org/training/tell-me-something-i-don%E2%80%99t-know).
I highly recommend it.

### Comments ###

