---
title: "How do libraries approach the challenge of deciding what items are worth preserving?"
layout: default
---
How do libraries approach the challenge of deciding what items are worth preserving?
=====================
Are there any agreed policies or standards in the area of deciding what
items are worth preserving? Items that seem mundane, like old catalogs,
may prove useful for economists to track how prices, and the economy,
have changed over time.

InquilineKea

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">collection-development</li><li class="tag">preservation</li><li class="tag">archiving</li><li class="tag">appraisal</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* KatieR: I think what the OP is getting at is a really good question but some
editing and refining is definitely needed. Perhaps rewording it to
something along the lines of "How do libraries approach the challenge of
deciding what items are worth preserving?" and continuing in the body to
say "Are there any agreed policies or standards in the area of deciding
what items are worth preserving? Items that seem mundane, like old
catalogs, may prove useful for economists to track how prices, and the
economy, have changed over time."
* Melissa: Maybe the question could include other items made of low-grade paper
such as newspapers, dime novels, etc.
* foggyone: The type of library is also important here. A public library may have
very little need/desire to preserve items, particularly depending on the
size of the library.


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
It's hard to predict the future, and what people in the future would
find useful. I think orienting preservation activities around what your
library users find useful *now* can be helpful to retain your sanity. To
do this, you inevitably need to measure and analyze what collections and
content are getting used. The study of [archival
appraisal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archival_appraisal) offers a lot
of theory in this area if you are willing to take a deep dive into an
answer to your question.

### Comments ###

Answer by Janet
----------------
Materials which are not likely to be available from other sources, such
as local history, should definitely be preserved.

### Comments ###

Answer by Austin
----------------
Top of the list: items that are in danger (crumbling paper, ect.), items
deemed of historical provenance, and items valued by donating patrons
(thus leading to more donations).

### Comments ###

