---
title : Is there any reason to digitize in full colour dissertations that were originally submitted in black & white?
---
Is there any reason to digitize in full colour dissertations that were originally submitted in black & white?
=====================
We are in the midst of a large digitization project of the earliest
dissertations at mpow. For the most part they were submitted in black &
white, though some have colour inserts (maps, graphics). At the moment
we are digitizing in full colour, as we do for rare items, etc etc, but
I wonder if this isn't overkill? Inserting colour pages does monkey our
workflow, but it's manageable. OCRing works much better when we use
grayscale, and the files are lighter for our IR, both of which are
definitely priorities.

jambina

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
I find that text gets a bit icky if we're talking straight-up bitonal,
but grayscale works pretty nicely. Full color does seem like overkill to
me; I rather doubt that historians of print culture will find much out
from inspecting dissertation scans that they wouldn't learn from reading
dissertation-formatting guidelines.

### Comments ###
* jambina: oh yeah, should have qualified - grayscale, not bitonal.
* dsalo: Fixed. :) Privileges, I haz them.
* jambina: OMG THAT IS FREAKY. also, huh. dunno how i feel about peeps fixing my
Qs. i mean, i trust you, but... (anyway, i know this isn't for this
venue.) (also, thank you!)
* dsalo: Yeah, I find it weird too, but it's part of the whole StackOverflow
vibe.
* David Rothman: Also, Dorothea can be trusted. :)
* dsalo: No I can't! I deny it absolutely! I am utterly untrustworthy! Ask
anyone! (Well, anyone except David.)

Answer by Flimzy
----------------
For documents where you use OCR, it's not as much of an issue--simply do
whatever renders the best OCR results, since presumably you're only
storing the text, and not the image form long-term.

Where the question matters is for image content--or text that cannot be
OCRed for whatever reason. And for these sorts of items, it is important
to determine your archival goals. You say you're archiving
dissertations, so presumably your goal is simply to preserve the
information in a reproducible way--as opposed, say, to recreating an
authentic-looking replica.

For sheer information preservation, grayscale (or even true black &
white for line drawings or text) will probably be preferable in most
cases, for two reasons:

1.  Smaller file sizes.
2.  Imperfections in the original (coffee stains?) are less noticeable.

Color should only ever be important when the original is in color, and
information would thus be lost by storing B&W. The other reason to
archive a color version is to reproduce (physically or electronically)
something as close to the original as possible (coffee stains
included!). This motivation is generally only interesting for objects of
historical significance, so probably not so much for most dissertations.

Keep in mind this is meant to answer the question of how to archive the
information. It may still be desirable to scan in full color to allow
for additional manipulation (manual or automatic removal of coffee
stains?) prior to archiving in the final B&W format.

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: I'm finding it hard to imagine a digital preservation project that would
generate OCR and throw out the image...but different strokes for
different folks I guess :-)

Answer by Brian Herzog
----------------
I took a archiving workshop in library school, and the teacher there
recommended always scanning in full color. Her reason was that color
will render the reproduction as close to the original as possible -
right down to paper color, ink color, stains, dogears creases, watermark
reflections, etc. It wasn't necessarily for the content itself, but all
of the "ephemera" that might be of interest to researchers. It doesn't
seem like that would be necessary for dissertations, but eventually they
will be "historical" to someone.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: For their material characteristics? Doesn't seem likely.
* Melissa: Does scanning in full color make the items more legible?

Answer by SJeffery
----------------
I work in a science library that makes heavy use of the theses and
dissertations produced at other institutions. Having all
inserts/foldouts that were produced in color available to us in color is
an **absolute requirement**. Our researchers (geologists, engineers,
etc.) require this for their work.

When considering scanning these is anything other than color you will
need to keep in mind how this will impact your library and users in the
future. I regularly get in touch with libraries to request either a copy
or permission to borrow their copy of a thesis/dissertation because
their copy (often Proquest/UMI) is in black and white. This ends up
taking several hours of our time which could be prevented by having it
made available in its original coloring.

For what it is worth, we microfilmed a set of our records in the 80's
and are now in the process of trying to track down the originals so that
they can be scanned in color as the black and white copies and not of
any use.

### Comments ###

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
Do greyscale for the pages submitted in B&W and color for the color
inserts. Like you said, it monkeys with the workflow, but the color is
presumably there for a reason and not preserving it loses information
and value. However, full-color inserts does not mean you have to do the
whole thing in color unless there's some technological limitation to
that effect on your end.

### Comments ###
* jambina: turns out the greyscale, due to the yellowing of the docs, looks
terrible. we're now looking at bitonal + full colour for any page
submitted in colour. workflow = ugh.

