---
title : How do libraries approach the challenge of interacting with the homeless?
---
How do libraries approach the challenge of interacting with the homeless?
=====================
In many cases, libraries are the only institutions left that the
homeless have access to, but on the other hand, other people might not
like it. So how do libraries approach this challenge?

InquilineKea

### Comments ###
* Joe: I assume you've read Chip Ward's [What They Didn't Teach Us in Library
School: The Public Library as an Asylum for the
Homeless](http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/174799/ward\_how\_the\_public\_library\_became\_heartbreak\_hotel).
The followup (only last month) is that [Salt Lake City Public Library is
working with their county's Human Services & Volunteers of
America](http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/news/53827281-78/library-lake-salt-county.html.csp)
* Ben Ostrowsky: I think this question could benefit from spelling out what, other than
homelessness itself, is a 'challenge' for libraries or their staff.
Certainly it can be a bit difficult to verify a patron's address if they
have none, and I know non-homeless poor people who have been turned away
temporarily because they can't afford to renew their state photo ID. Is
that what you mean? Or do you mean "smelly patrons, who are sometimes
homeless", "sleeping patrons, who are sometimes homeless", etc.?
* InquilineKea: I pretty much mean the latter case. In any case, they have my full
sympathy (if I were homeless, I'd do anything I could do to max out my
time spent in the libraries even if I was smelly).
* Joe: I know at the local branch of our public library (I don't work there),
the custodian mentioned that paper towels & toilet paper need to be
restocked abnormally early when one suspected homeless patron visits.
* KatieR: This question has a bunch of good answers and is about a week old. You
should accept what you feel is the "most correct". It doesn't have to be
mine, but it helps keep the accepted answer for the site up and helps
future visitors quickly identify the best source of info.


Answer by KatieR
----------------
It comes down to the individual library's policy.

When it concerns public libraries, which is where the homeless
population issue seems to be primarily focused, it is normally in bad
form to say that they are not allowed in the library. A public library
is meant to be open and accessible to all members of the community,
including the homeless. In many communities, the public library is the
only place where there are resources available to help them. Many
libraries will have policies in place that say there is no sleeping
allowed, no large bags, or patrons must be using library materials while
in the library. Policies like these discourage "hanging out", which is
what many people dislike about the homeless in the library.

I know from personal experience, there are a number of homeless
community members that spend a lot of their day in the library. If they
are quiet, respectful, and following our policies, we don't bother them.
If there are complaints from other patrons or they start becoming
disrespectful to staff or the library then we address it. We request
they calm down and stop their offensive behavior. If they do not, then
we ask them to leave.

### Comments ###

Answer by aslum
----------------
Our library has compiled some pamphlets with lists of local resources
for the Homeless, from shelters to food banks, and more. Getting this
kind of information to them can be especially useful in the winter.

Other than that, what is outlined in @KatieR's answer is good. Many may
not know where else to go, or even if there are resources available to
them. The library is probably the best place, if not the only one, where
they can get access to that kind of information.

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
We have a more unique problem at the academic library where I work. The
issue isn't with homeless exactly but through-hikers on the Appalachian
Trail. We are close enough to the trail that they like to come and check
their e-mail (not a problem), catch up on the newspaper (not a problem)
and bathe in our bathrooms (problem!). It's not only the that bathing at
a sink is in appropriate, it's the abuse of paper towels, soap and the
mess left behind in the sink (shaving) and water on the floor. It's
difficult to know when a hiker is misusing the facilities without going
to check, which seems awfully nosey.

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: Some academic libraries have shower facilities (for example, Woodruff
Library at Emory University; see
http://www.yelp.com/biz/the-shower-atlanta\#hrid:\_dhOcmXuFE4V51oM6b3M\_Q
for Yelp reviews). It's possible that installing a similar facility in
your library could keep the bathing to appropriate spaces.
* Melissa: I'm sure it would help; I'm sure it won't happen. Lack of space is an
issue in this building. Good thought, though!
* KatieR: Could you restrict use of the bathroom to students only? Use of
computers or newspapers doesnt cost you anything but bathroom supplies
can get expensive Kinda harsh but I more than understand the frustration
of people abusing the bathroom. We had a drug dealer running out of ours
once.
* Melissa: I think it's a fine line to be friendly and accommodating to hikers
without being used by hikers. For the record, the vast majority are
delightful, and I'm glad that they stop in. The library encourages use
by the community.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Another aspect to consider is having clear policies. Many libraries have
been sued over anti-homeless policies because they were not followed
consistently. If there is something about smell, do you kick out anyone
who has an offensive smell, like too much perfume? If you say no big
bags, do you go after the student with a big bag as well as the
homeless? There has to be consistent enforcement.

One of the most famous examples is Kreimer v. Morristown (which goes all
the way back to 1991)
[http://www.ahcuah.com/lawsuit/federal/kreimer1.htm](http://www.ahcuah.com/lawsuit/federal/kreimer1.htm)

### Comments ###

Answer by Monica
----------------
Public libraries that are open and welcome to all should have good
behavior policies that are followed equally by all staff. If your
library has identified behaviors that are problems the transient
community has exhibited, include them if they are things you would
expect to have followed by all visitors.

For example, my library includes:

-   Library users may not leave personal belongings in the Library when
    they leave the building. The Library is not responsible for any loss
    of users' personal belongings, through theft or otherwise. Bulky
    items that take up excessive space are not permitted in Library
    facilities or on Library grounds.
-   Sleeping or the appearance of sleeping is not permitted in the
    Library.

Those two rules take care of most of the problem issues we see
exhibited, and they are rules we enforce with any visitor breaking them.

It's separating the behavior from the person that is most important to
keep in mind.

### Comments ###

Answer by Travis
----------------
Require log-ins and time limits on all computers. Add sleeping and legal
B.O. policies to the code of conduct. If you are lucky enough to have
security, have them check the bathrooms regularly. Also, invest in a
good ventilation system, or air freshener.

This discussion isn't the time to show everyone how liberal you are. The
homeless need social services, not libraries.

### Comments ###
* Nicolas Raoul: "The homeless need social services, not libraries" \> I believe the
homeless too need libraries, see aslum's answer.

