---
title: "What are important resources or information to highlight on a library website?"
layout: default
---
What are important resources or information to highlight on a library website?
=====================
My library's website is in need of updating. We're looking to highlight
important resources, services & information. What items should be on a
library website? What should be most visible (catalog, hours, contact,
programs)? Are there good ways to find out what sources patrons need/use
most?

Fisher

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">internet</li><li class="tag">website</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* KatieR: This question is off topic. It's about web design, resources, and
techniques rather than libraries. If you were to ask what are some key
items that need to be on a library website, it would be more relevant.
* Fisher: Thanks for your feedback. I've edited it to be more relevant to
libraries.
* Joe: whatever you're paying a subscription for that's being under-used?


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
An important first step is to measure (with a web metrics tool like
Google Analytics) how your site is getting used *now*, and then look for
usage patterns, and (ahem) non-usage patterns. I would let this
information guide what you want to change on the site. As you make
changes you can see the impact of your changes in near real time
(assuming anyone uses the site).

### Comments ###

Answer by Ben Ostrowsky
----------------
-   **What are the library's hours TODAY?** (or: What branches are open
    RIGHT NOW?) Your web server knows what time it is and what day it
    is. Tell the user "Today's hours at Main Library: 8am - 6pm ([see
    full schedule])" above the fold.
-   **What items does the library have to offer me?** You should be able
    to search the catalog from the front page, again, above the fold.
    You might also want to highlight recent purchases, currently
    available DVDs with a high historical circulation for the previous
    90 days, etc.
-   **What events are coming up soon?** Storytimes, book clubs, open
    meetings, etc.
-   **How can I reach someone right now?** Give me a full range of
    options, including a phone number that a *human being* will answer
    during business hours (if my first experience with you is a
    voicemail maze, even if it's only one level deep, I'm not going to
    be happy). If you're going to list social media like Twitter and
    Facebook, for God's sake make sure that someone is managing those
    accounts on at least a daily basis when the library is open for
    business. Ideally your reference staff will monitor the account
    throughout the day, getting notified on every @-mention or DM.

And, finally:

-   Remember that the question you should be asking yourself is not
    "What services do I want to highlight?" but "What do **my users**
    want to know?". It's fine to have ONE self-promoting banner to draw
    attention to a new books-by-mail service, but if your website looks
    like chunky fruit salad when you squint, you're serving library
    staff more than users.


### Comments ###

Answer by Erin White
----------------
This answer partially depends on what type of library you're designing
for - public, academic, special? I can speak for my institution, an
academic library that supports a medical school and hospital campus.
From our web stats, search keywords and heatmapping of our homepage,
here are the things that get the most traffic:

-   Search box (discovery search of books, articles, etc. - by far the
    most popular)
-   Library hours (by far the second-most popular, and the most popular
    keyword search referral from Google)
-   Top databases: PubMed and Academic search complete
-   Full list of databases
-   Study spaces/study room reservations
-   List of journals
-   My library record

After that, it is a long tail that includes research help, ask
us/contact, events, news, special collections, giving. In general our
design decisions err on the side of

1.  getting users to our collections or
2.  helping them use the physical spaces

There are a few different methods you can use to track use of your site.
We have had a lot of luck using the click-tracking software
[CrazyEgg](http://crazyegg.com), which is very inexpensive, for our
homepage. Heatmapping is a quick and powerful way to show which parts of
your site are clicked on most. Google Analytics is another quick and
painless way to figure out which pages are most popular, which search
terms are being used to get to your site, etc.

In the end, these tools help a lot but don't tell you much about users'
motivations or what they are *not* finding on your site. If you have
time, it is worth doing some usability assessments of your site to find
out areas to improve. There are many great resources out there, but I'd
recommend the [Handbook of Usability
Testing](http://www.worldcat.org/oclc/254559224) by Dana Chisnell and
Jeff Rubin. [Don't Make Me Think](http://www.worldcat.org/oclc/61895021)
is also an inspirational and entertaining place to start reading when
undertaking a redesign.

Good luck!

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
Take a look at the websites of other libraries similar to yours as if
you were a patron trying to access something like hours, the catalog, or
whatever else might be important to your patrons. Model yours after
those that did it in a way you liked and avoid the things that you felt
made the website too difficult to use.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
We recently redid the website for a small public library
([http://www.westbanklibrary.com/](http://www.westbanklibrary.com/)). We
tried doing usability studies, but found people reluctant to
participate. In the end, we responded to our two most frequent
complaints (information about programs and services was buried in the
menuing system, no calendar function) and created a design in alignment
with our re-branding goals.

We utilized multiple menus: small menu at top for things people expect
at most websites (About, Contact, FAQs, etc), large tabbed menu for most
important/ often used choices (catalog, calendar, etc), and a complete
table of menu choices at the bottom (including things like job openings,
how to rent a meeting room, and Ask a Librarian). Our goal was to get
people the information they want with as few clicks as possible, and to
highlight the essentials from both the user's view (catalog, ebooks,
storytime) and our own (volunteer, donate).

Interestingly, we got the input we desired AFTER launching the new
website - people, reacting to the change, were quick to tell us what
they liked and not! Often we were able to make adjustments to
accommodate requests.

### Comments ###
* user130: I am having a similar situation with the participation angle. Or rather
80% of the complaints are about the catalog which is something that I
have nothing to do with. Thanks for sharing your site!

