---
title: "Alternatives to RFID for checking the completeness of a package?"
layout: default
---
Alternatives to RFID for checking the completeness of a package?
=====================
One of the features RFID offers over barcodes is the ability to join a
set of RFID tags into a group, and check for the completeness of that
group each time it is checked out of the library or returned by the
patron. This way media consisting of several items, such as the
recording made of several CDs, a booklet and its jacket, or a set of
brochures inside a binder, or educational material together with its box
and instructions can be checked for integrity if every separable item
gets its own RFID tag.

There are some limits to this. Educational material may consist of a set
of cue cards with as much as 120 single cards and more, and normal
library tag reading equipment would be challenged by that number since
the closely stacked tags interfere and shield each other. Also, it might
not be desirable to mark the backsides of the cards, or there might
simply not be enough space for the tag when the items to be tagged get
small enough.

Are there viable alternatives?

Tatjana Heuser

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">circulation</li><li class="tag">rfid</li><li class="tag">barcodes</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: Are you asking about verifying the completeness of a shipment received
during the acquisitions process (before marking it on the invoice as
received), or are you asking about verifying the completeness compound
materials that are being checked back in at the end of a loan?
* Tatjana Heuser: Definitely the latter. To a certain extent we're already doing this, and
encountering the limitations mentioned. I'll try to reword the question
to clarify, thanks!
* Joe Atzberger: 121 RFID tags probably cost more than the 120 flashcards. That would
make it the wrong solution in my mind.
* Tatjana Heuser: So far we're sticking as many RFID tags on those items as seem feasible.
The box containing the 120 flash cards for example has a sticker listing
the box, the booklet, and a box of 120 flashcards included. All those
items with their own RFID tag, adding up to 3 tags for the entire
package. All 120 flash cards just doesn't work: space (for the
stickers), costs (as you mentioned), scanning/processing time (provided
the scanner is able to scan so many densely packed stickers correctly),
you name it.


Answer by dsalo
----------------
The SLIS Laboratory Library checks out quite a few tech gadgets, which
of course come with shedloads of cords, peripherals, manuals, and
whatnot. Each gadget's case contains an itemized list (laminated, so it
doesn't fall apart) of what's supposed to be in it; circ staff check
everything against the list as they check the item back in.

It doesn't work 100% -- a couple of weeks ago I turned a digital audio
recorder back in without its little tripod gizmo. As far as I know,
though, all the library's gadgetry is pretty much intact!

### Comments ###
* Tatjana Heuser: Yes, we're providing these lists as well, plus a bright yellow sticker
asking the librarian at the checkout desk to check the contents of the
package, plus another sticker asking the patron to use the checkout desk
instead of the automated checkout. This does take care of checkout.
Return automats are a slightly different matter, though, and it seems
that they aren't as good as their human colleagues when it comes to
being fooled.
* dsalo: Is there a way you can set up your circ system to flag staff when one of
these gets returned?

Answer by Fisher
----------------
Along with the itemized & laminated sheet, my library circulates kits
with call numbers like 'J KIT \#12 Bedtime' (a multimedia set in a mesh
bag). Each item in the bag has the KIT \#12 in large type on the front
cover so that even if items are separated they can eventually be
identified properly and put back together.

Perhaps too manual of a procedure, especially compared to RFID, but
certainly more cost effective.

### Comments ###

