---
title: "What data format do libraries prefer for Web APIs?"
layout: default
---
What data format do libraries prefer for Web APIs?
=====================
Recently libraries have begun to focus quite a bit on [linked
data](http://www.w3.org/2005/Incubator/lld/XGR-lld-20111025/) and the
importance of
[APIs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_programming_interface)
for building applications. There are a variety of options for the format
of data returned by APIs: XML, JSON, RDF/XML, Turtle, CSV, MARC, to name
a few. I was wondering if there is emerging consensus around what web
service data format is preferable. Characteristics such as reusability,
eas of use, extensibility, tool support are among the possible
considerations. Opinions about the type of XML, JSON, RDF etc are
welcome as well.

Ed Summers

### Comments ###
* Joe: 'XML' is too broad a category. You've got REST, SOAP, WDDX ... and
within SOAP, you've got doc/lit, rpc/encoded, doc/lit wrapped. And
outside of SOAP, there's XML using attributes vs. all elements, etc.


Answer by Erin White
----------------
Our library has been developing with XML for our APIs but we've also
been dipping our toes into JSON. For us the deciding factor for XML has
been (1) our web technology of choice, PHP, and its ability to work
easily with XML; (2) staff's expertise with XML over other formats; and
(3) our vendor's API decisions, which until recently have been
predominantly XML. I can see JSON becoming more popular for us in the
future because it is so lightweight and flexible.

As far as emerging consensus, I have no answers but would be interested
to hear others'.

### Comments ###
* phette23: I don't have an answer so I'll just comment: I personally feel JSON APIs
have a clear advantage. They're lightweight, easy to process in any
language, & work well with cross-domain requests (no server side
scripting!). As someone who tries to work in JavaScript as much as
possible, that's a huge win.
* Joe: @phette23: the disadvantage is that you can't validate and there aren't
the stub builders available like there are if you supplied a WSDL file
for a SOAP service. (I've amazed people that they could consume one of
our more complex services in under 30 min of work, when it takes days to
work out the kinks on groups with similar interfaces done in JSON or
REST)

Answer by Sam K
----------------
I think it depends on the desired end result. I mainly use APIs to
obtain data for analysis not for web presentation so XML (with it's
relatively high overhead) is fine. If I were doing more web work I think
I'd like JSON better.

That said my language of choice is python and it's easy enough to parse
and process either.

### Comments ###

Answer by Chad Ferguson
----------------
Like the others have mentioned the two most accepted and widely used
choices are [`XML`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML) and
[`JSON`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON). XML would be optimal in
situations where your data is primarily marked-up, you need validation
(schema), or require attributes. JSON on the other hand is more
light-weight and is great for data using the basic types (primarily
string), is native to javascript, and is considerably smaller than xml.

Personally I prefer to work with JSON.

### Comments ###

Answer by The Beard
----------------
This would seem like a tough question to answer because much depends on
the community the library itself serves. For example, a library that is
part of a higher education institution may be able to take advantage of
more current technologies (JSON, as an example) with an ample supply of
students, graduate assistants and other technologists who can act more
in concert with the times.

A typical library in a K-12 rural district may have one librarian who
can choose technologies for acquisition, but their ability to scale or
adopt new technologies could be difficult simply because there's little
infrastructure to sustain any change they'd like to make.

In working with (and designing) a number of APIs related to search,
discovery and retrieval of educational resources, one common thread that
has emerged is just how powerful JSON is. XML is still very widely used.

### Comments ###

Answer by Ed Chamberlain
----------------
JSON and XML seem to be used extensively. As API's tend to be layered
over or originating from commercial systems, we often have to work
around those limitations.

The [public facing API's we've developed at
Cambridge](http://www.lib.cam.ac.uk/api/) attempt to provide XML and
JSON where possible. However, this has its drawbacks, in that the we've
created data feeds that work ok in each model, rather than play up to
the strengths of one.

I've personally found that JSON's proximity to the data models in
programming languages makes it more preferable for developers. XMLs'
ability to represent complex data models and concepts using nested
structures and attributes makes it a nice fit for metadata folk.

We've also [experimented with offering RDF and
SPARQL](http://data.lib.cam.ac.uk/). Feedback so far indicates that
developers (librarycentric or otherwise) prefer easier lighter formats
to work with although RDF has its uses. Even with RDF, its hard to find
a universal standard that works across several sources of data.

### Comments ###

