---
title: "What MARC tags are appropriate for linking bibliographic records of an adaptation (e.g. film) to its source?"
layout: default
---
What MARC tags are appropriate for linking bibliographic records of an adaptation (e.g. film) to its source?
=====================
My cataloging class (back in the day) focused mainly on describing
individual items rather than the relationships among them. I'm curious
about the state of the art when it comes to related items. Let me give
you a scenario:

> Bib \#24601 describes the hardcover edition of *Harry Potter and the
> Order of Fries* by J. K. Elemenopee.
>
> Bib \#31337 describes the abridged audiobook on CD.
>
> Bib \#54321 describes the widescreen DVD version of *Harry Potter and
> the Order of Fries*, the film based on the book.

It's clear to me that these bibs describe **things that are related to
each other in an important way**. But is there a good way of describing
that relationship in MARC? By "a good way" I mean a practice that

1.  would be understood by most catalogers and
2.  would also result in appropriate behavior from the ILS, such as

    -   the OPAC displaying an appropriate link such as "Other formats:
        [audiobook] [DVD]" or
    -   offering the patron the chance to put a hold request on *Harry
        Potter and the Order of Fries* which could be satisfied by
        whichever versions or formats are checked on the form when the
        patron clicks Submit.



Ben Ostrowsky

### Comments ###


Answer by KatieR
----------------
I think you might be talking about the 500 field which is for "General
Notes". You'll often find DVDs that are based off books have "Based on
the novel by..." in this field.

[http://www.oclc.org/bibformats/es/5xx/default.shtm](http://www.oclc.org/bibformats/es/5xx/default.shtm)

As for the records to recognize each other and allowing a patron to
select which formats to put on hold based off one entry in the OPAC, I
have never heard of this, though it would be nice.

BUT

RDA is changing a lot of this. How it will work in the OPAC setting to
create a relationship that you describe? It might make linking the
records to each other a bit easier. BYU has RDA implemented in their
catalog. I can't directly link to an entry but for Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows, there are links on each name or title that guide you
further along. It is worth taking a look at.

An RDA example of "Relationship" fields:

> 700 1\_ ǂi motion picture adaptation of (work) ǂa Austen, Jane, ǂd
> 1775-1817. ǂt Emma.
>
> 700 fields: Encoding the ǂe Relationship designator term is
> cataloger’s judgment. It is not a core element in RDA, so you may not
> always see it in every record. RDA Appendix I Relationship
> Designators: Relationships Between A Resource And Persons, Families,
> And Corporate Bodies Associated With The Resource. Examples: ǂe
> screenwriter, ǂe actor, ǂe film director RDA Appendix J Relationship
> Designators: Relationships Betw, Expressions, Manifestations, And
> Items.
>
> Examples: ǂi motion picture adaptation of (work)

[http://tinyurl.com/7rosbmv](http://tinyurl.com/7rosbmv) (A powerpoint
presentation given at the ULA Conference 2011 based off BYU's testing of
RDA.)

### Comments ###

Answer by John Flatness
----------------
LoC
[published](http://www.loc.gov/marc/marc-functional-analysis/multiple-versions.html)
some documentation about how MARC records *could* be used to identify
holdings that are the same work or a related work (in the context of
FRBR). In the relevant section about identifying matching or related
works, it has this to say:

> ...records for the "same work" are considered to include two groups:
>
> 1.  records that match on the name subfields in the main entry
>     (100/110/111) and title (240/243/245 - in that order of precedence
>     - subfields \$a, \$n, and \$p). In cases where main entry is under
>     title (130, or 245 - where there is no 1XX field), records that
>     match on the title subfields are considered to be records for the
>     same work.
>
> 2.  records that contain an analytical added entry
>     (700/710/711/730/740, with a second indicator value of 2) that
>     matches the main entry/title elements in records from group one
>     (1) above.
>
> Added entries of an unspecified type (700/710/711/730/740, where the
> second indicator value is blank) are considered, by default, to be
> either secondary added entries or related work added entries...

I'd expect your hypothetical hardcover and audiobook would (or should)
qualify as a "group 1" match already without doing anything differently.

That same document has some theoretical examples of a hierarchical
display for different expressions of the same work, along with related
works, and the [example of *The English
Patient*](http://www.loc.gov/marc/marc-functional-analysis/multiple-versions.html#english-patient)
is nearly exactly what you're talking about. (I think).

That being said, there's an awful lot of "could" floating around in
there. As an end-user, I've yet to use an OPAC that seems to actually
try to do this.

### Comments ###

Answer by teagueamania
----------------
The answer to your question is a matter of opinion; with that
disclaimer, I think the answer should be: "No, there is no good way of
encoding the relationship of the adaptation to the original item". MARC
can only manage a general note, as Katie R. mentions, which isn't usable
by an OPAC, and oft overlooked by the human searchers. John Flatness has
discovered combinations which *could* work, as he says, but again the
relationship isn't explicit, and the OPAC can make no use of this
without coding which MARC currently doesn't embody.

What we really need is linked data that can explicitly describe the
nature of the relationship. Ian Davis and Richard Newman's [Expression
of Core FRBR Concepts in RDF](http://vocab.org/frbr/core.html) may not
be the most current thinking on the subject, but the list of terms gives
a clear idea of the relationships that could be embodied with linked
data.

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: Thanks. "No, this is a problem that still needs to be solved" is an
excellent and valuable answer.

Answer by slmcdanold
----------------
Linking entries in MARC already exist: the 76x-78x fields. They've been
used for serials (continuing resources) for years.

[http://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/bd76x78x.html](http://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/bd76x78x.html)

The 776 field is specifically for other formats. So linking between the
print and the online versions, or the print and the audio versions, for
example. This is limited to a purely horizontal relationship however.

While these specific relationships are currently described in MARC via
the linking fields, many of our systems are not able to fully utilize
them in the way you describe above. Links can be provided, but each
record still remains separate (they aren't grouped together for
requesting functions).

With RDA, the use of relationship designators allows us to expand beyond
the specific linking fields and make other MARC fields linking fields in
a way by adding the designator subfield and code. Again, we will likely
be limited by our current systems in terms of what we can actually *do*
with those relationships besides describe them.

### Comments ###

