---
title : How do I implement an "act like a user" week for our tech services staff?
---
How do I implement an "act like a user" week for our tech services staff?
=====================
I'm planning on running a week where our tech staff has to use all the
public services we offer, as well as "act like a
user/client/patron/community
member/whatever-you-call-em-doesn't-matter-to-me": use the public
entrance to the building, check out an ereader, reserve a study room,
etc etc etc.

If you've done this in the past, what did you include? How long did you
run it for? How did you get buy-in?

jambina

### Comments ###
* dsalo: I... have never done this or seen it done, so I have no insight. But
what a great idea! Could you get any of them to bring significant
others, children, parents -- folks they care about who are in no way
accustomed to the environment -- as well?
* jambina: whoa, hadn't thought of that, but that's a killer idea.


Answer by Mary-Michelle Moore
----------------
I'm still a student and have not done this for work yet. One thing we
did for class was to go into an unfamiliar library and act on a user and
report our findings to the class. It was for a reference course rather
than tech. services, but if you library has several branches could you
send them to a branch other than the one they work in? Perhaps the
slightly unfamiliar surroundings would break them out of their current
thought processes and they could come back with some user-oriented
ideas?

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: I like that idea. Especially if you can partner with a neighboring
county to give each other your impressions of the website, because I'd
find it difficult to view my own website as if I didn't know it well.
(While sober, anyway, and this isn't Work Like A Blitzed Lush Day we're
talking about. That's \*next\* week, right?)

Answer by Fisher
----------------
I've not run a Work Like a Patron Day at my library, but have found
[Brian Herzog's
posts](http://www.swissarmylibrarian.net/2011/09/27/work-like-a-patron-day-2011/)
on it to be enlightening.

He & others linked from his posts on Work Like a Patron Day recommend
having staff call the main line & navigate the phone tree, use the OPAC
for book searches, check out items from the other side of the counter,
use public computers, read posted signs, and sit in patron furniture.

Depending on the size of your staff & library, you might want to have
them work this in shifts, sending one or two out for an hour or so. It
might be useful to have a checklist of recommended patron activities and
encourage them to try to hit a certain number of them.

As for buy-in, incentives can be a good motivator, even if it's merely a
token. You could even do the checklist scavenger-hunt style and have the
most checks win something. If you need administrative support, there are
good arguments on Herzog's blog (see link above) as well as the Library
Success Wiki's [page on
WLAPD](http://www.libsuccess.org/index.php?title=Work_Like_A_Patron_Day),
and [Walking Paper's post](http://www.walkingpaper.org/647) on it for
the benefit of viewing the library as a patron.

### Comments ###
* Brian Herzog: When we've done it in my library, it's been a voluntary thing, because
staff schedules on any given day may or may not allow for it. But it
seems like people are curious, and once they realize how different
things are as a patron, their curiosity drives them to keep at it. The
follow-up is also important - keep a list of things staff has found,
especially things like "dirty monitor" or "broken keyboard," and then
fix them, and let staff know you're fixing them - that goes a long way
too.

Answer by jonsca
----------------
Dsalo alludes to having the staff bring other people to the event in the
comments, and I agree, the more the merrier, but it may also be very
helpful to you to have them bring friends or relatives that may have
some form of impairment (visual or auditory, etc.).

There may be no written requirement to adapt to such needs, but it may
be very helpful know when a stage of your circulation or other process
might rely on having information that is not otherwise available to
someone without the ability (e.g., if the font on your catalog database
system is so small that it might require assistance to read, or how to
get closed captions on a library video station).

So, in addition to running a simulation with the staff, their families,
and associates, I think having the staff see scenarios that might be
pertinent to a small but important subset of patrons would be
invaluable.

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Work Like a Patron Day is a great idea and program to get the staff to
understand how the patron sees the library. I agree that Brian Herzog's
post on it was a great push to that understanding. However, I would also
add that it is important to have some level of cross-training as well.
It's not just to get the patron's perspective, but how we treat
co-workers internally. Many may not have any idea what another
department does, creating misunderstandings and even resentment. Setting
aside some time for staff to "shadow" other departments on a regular
basis can help emphasize that. Incorporating the "shadowing" with Work
Like a Patron Day can help staff work together.

### Comments ###

