---
title: "How to keep high security standards while allowing self-checkout?"
layout: default
---
How to keep high security standards while allowing self-checkout?
=====================
A handful of libraries in the area are allowing self-checkout for
established patrons. This is limited to books for the time being, as
items like DVDs are locked in plexiglass cases and must still be handled
by a library staff member before patrons leave the building. Other
high-value items have similar deterrents.

A simple solution would be to let the patrons dismantle any security
precautions themselves during the self-checkout process, but this does
not defend against dishonest patrons, and of course basically enables
casual thefts.

The best idea would be to just require library personnel for checkout,
but allowing patrons to self-checkout frees up the staff to do their
countless other responsibilities.

How could the library maintain the security devices and reap their
benefits, while allowing patrons this autonomy?

jonsca

### Comments ###


Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
I go to four public libraries regularly.

1.  Approach 1: de-magnitizes the strip when using the self checkout
    machine. (or doesn't on occasion which is how I know it really
    works.)
2.  Approach 2: honor system. I know this because I forgot to checkout
    once and was halfway down the block before I realized it. And yes, I
    went back to actually check out the book.
3.  Approach 3: a security guard who checks your receipt and hassles you
    if bringing any library books from home that you didn't check out
    that day.
4.  Approach 4: can't tell if de-magnitizing is happening here.

Interestingly enough 1 & 2 are from the library system. 3 & 4 are from
another system but one is in midtown manhattan so you expect things to
be different.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Hooray for the honor system, that's certainly the most economical
approach.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: @jonsca Unless people steal your books :).
* dsalo: You might want to look at the Johnson Center Library at George Mason
University. They have open stacks -- so open that it's possible to grab
a book and abscond without encountering a door or security gate -- and
it works for them. There's some shrinkage, but apparently not enough to
be concerned about.
* Melissa: Honor system loss is so much less than the cost of tapes and gates at
many libraries ...

Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
I don't think you do. By choosing a self-checkout solution you are
choosing something between security and convenience; as your choice
tends toward convenience there is a higher risk of loss.

### Comments ###
* andrea: Not just convenience, though that would be a good enough reason on its'
own, but also increased patron privacy, shorter check-out lines, and
freeing up staff.

Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
Anecdata: At MPOW (academic library) we took a look a few years ago at
the cost of stripping our books as compared to our loss rates, and
determined that our loss rate would have to increase like 5000% to make
up for what we pay for the strips + the processing time for them. As a
result, we now only security strip books above a certain cost threshold.

So while that story is anecdata, you probably have the data for your
library so you can see whether this is a real concern.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: I think that might work better at an academic or very large library
(which might have less circulation per item and thus less theft per
item) than at a public library, but the general point's still valid. As
for high-value items in the public context, there are self-checkout
solutions for security cases; see below.
* eby: We found similar in public library setting and stopped with security
options. The cost of staff time and supplies were much greater than
reordering stolen/lost items. This includes high theft things like dvds,
etc. YMMV but be sure to include staff time in calculations.

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
I think it was KCLS (in rural Kansas) that was able to maintain small
libraries' circulation largely or completely unstaffed using
self-checkout systems. Not everybody can accomplish this, but it is
remarkable that some can.

However, I don't think you can say it is the "same" level of security,
unless you concede that staff don't currently keep anyone from walking
out w/ uncirculated items or that there is already very little risk from
your users. It's cost/benefit.

### Comments ###

Answer by Kathleen Kanarski
----------------
At our library we use 3M self-check machines and have an "unlocker"
machine placed next to the self-check in those branches currently using
RFID. Both machines are connected through a PC and when a DVD or CD is
placed in the unlocker, that machine queries the self-check as to
checked out/not checked out status. If the item is checked out, then the
security case is unlocked. Of course, the system doesn't work when A/V
from other branches are sent to fill reserve requests. In that type of
situation, we have to convert each item to RFID even though it doesn't
belong to that specific branch. Yikes! The belief is that this will keep
everything on our self-service reserve shelves secure.

### Comments ###

Answer by Samantha Poyer
----------------
Put the self-checkout machine(s) next to your information or checkout
counter, or somewhere else where a librarian is already present. Whether
the materials are sensitized or not, this acts as a deterrent to theft
without having to assgign another librarian to checkout.

### Comments ###
* Tatjana Heuser: It's even better at allowing the patrons to ask for assistance if they
encounter any difficulties with the self-check machines.

Answer by Laura
----------------
In our library we use the Cube system (www.allcirc.com). Doesn't need
RFID or anythign like that, yet keeps everything safe. Also, fully
self-service.

Here is a case study that I did with them that will put everything in
perspective: latcorp.com/marketing/Elko\_case\_study\_R1.pdf -
basically, CDs are stored inside and are never given out unless its a
valid patron, therefore, can't steal, no nead to spend money on
security.

### Comments ###

Answer by Michelle McLean
----------------
We have RFID self-check on all our collections, with the security on
items removed and cases unlocked when they are issued. We have security
gates as well with the RFID, which usually picks up when people either
have forgotten they have issued, or haven't done so properly. We have
also had instances, where people have tried to walk out with items and
been caught by security and basically just dumped the item and run.

We have had this system for two years now and approximately half of our
loans go through self-check. Since then, we have lost less items than
when everything was borrowed through staff managed loans.

The system is not perfect, but its more secure than what we used to have
and as our stats show, our borrowers love the self-serve component of
it.

### Comments ###

