---
title: "What impact does Patron-Driven Acquisition have on library budgets?"
layout: default
---
What impact does Patron-Driven Acquisition have on library budgets?
=====================
Patron-driven acquisition (also known as demand-driven acquisition)
enables libraries to have many more ebooks discoverable, without the
need to purchase them up front. The user triggers a purchase after
selecting and browsing a title (the algorithm may trigger a purchase
directly after a certain time spent with the title, or on page turns.
Alternatively it may send a request through to a librarian to mediate
the purchase).

I am curious as to the impact of PDA on the library's budget. I have
heard a number of stories where ebook budgets were spent extremely
quickly (in the first few weeks of term). What mitigating procedures
have libraries put in place, and has the use of PDA generally been a
success in your institution?

Ben

### Comments ###


Answer by Fisher
----------------
While I don't personally deal with Patron-Driven Acquisition, the
consortium I belong to uses it for the digital collection they manage
with Overdrive. Due to the high number of patron holds and budget
constraints, they have to have a higher triggering number than they, the
libraries, or the patrons would like. So while I've heard of places that
have a trigger at 3+ holds to purchase, my consortium has a 9+ holds
trigger and the item is merely placed in a list for suggested purchase.
The purchase does not go through automatically, someone must review the
list, make sure it doesn't push the budget, and then okay the purchases.

When setting up a patron-driven acquisition system, especially
initially, it seems valuable to have those sorts of safeguards in place,
either higher trigger limits or some sort of mediation.

### Comments ###

Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Our organisation uses Patron Drive Acquisition to prioritise our very
limited budget, but we do have controls set out like the above. I.e. a
certain level of demand must be met before a purchase made. Library
staff also review all suggested purchases so that they can spot trends,
and adjust the 'trigger level' if we know that demand is going to
increase due to an upcoming movie release or a literary award.

The budget does expended earlier in the financial year, rather than
later, but it also provides a great justification for what we buy and
there are no end of financial year hassles with our accounts department
(given that the majority is spent by the mid-year mark).

### Comments ###

Answer by libwitch
----------------
It is going to vary sharply depending how a library opts to set it up -
every ebook vendor has different criteria for what triggers a purchase,
but in a library may also opt for "lending" agreements instead (in my
opinion, this is a poor way to go, since money spent towards lending
/short term loans does not go towards the purchase price of the book
later, if purchased).

And how much control does the library decide to have on the records that
are chosen for ebook purchasing - which can also vary greatly, from the
library buying into package deals to librarians vetting all records
beforehand? I suspect if we just said to a vendor "hey, load the nyt
best seller list into our catalog," our budget would be blow pretty
quickly.\* But since we instead opted to hand select records to fill in
an area that we are lacking a subject specialist in, we are seeing some
use - about comparable to what we would expect to see in paper
circulation.

\*We don't collect NYT best sellers as a general rule.

### Comments ###

Answer by eclecticlibrarian
----------------
Most of the horror stories I heard were from the early days, before
libraries and vendors had worked out most of the kinks. Triggers are not
as trigger-happy, and libraries are smarter about profiling the kinds of
books they want in the program.

For example, my library has been participating in a PDA program since
January, and we've had less than ten triggered purchases during that
time, in part because the selection pool is quite focused. We went for
social science & humanities titles that fit our slip profile, and by
default that also narrowed down to ebooks available on the specific
platform we chose. Essentially, these are titles we might choose to
purchase on our own, but rather than risk picking ones that no one
wants, we let the users decide. What we didn't do is throw anything and
everything into the pool.

### Comments ###

