---
title: "What do university libraries do to their extremely old books?"
layout: default
---
What do university libraries do to their extremely old books?
=====================
For example - books published before the 1950s.

University libraries will continue to purchase more and more books, but
there is only so much space that is available in each university
libraries. Some libraries (like MIT's) seem to have more modern
collections than other libraries (like Brown's) though.

InquilineKea

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">academic-libraries</li><li class="tag">weeding</li><li class="tag">collection-development</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* foggyone: The options you give may also be affected by what is covered. Science
and technology heavy collections must update regularly while a
collection in the Humanities may be able to hold onto books a bit
longer. You do not want your doctor studying from 1800's medical
textbooks, but a historian might love to study it.
* Melissa: It's also why a liberal arts college library might have an older
collection date than a science library -- literature doesn't expire.


Answer by Wooble
----------------
First, early-to-mid 20th Century books are not usually considered "very
old"; very old books are usually stored in special collections.

Many libraries (including both
[Brown](http://library.brown.edu/about/annex/) and
[MIT](http://libraries.mit.edu/lsa/index.html)) store older, low-use
materials in offsite, high-density storage facilites. Others, without
the budget to do so, may choose to discard these books, particularly if
they're widely held by other libraries and do not get used often.

### Comments ###
* Kris C: And as an aside, there's the likes of the Bodleian which has a copy of
every book copyrighted in the UK:
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-oxfordshire-16325727

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Collectively, libraries are investigating their collections for unique
and rare items, to be sure that enough copies exist to keep them
available. This is known in the field as the "last-copy problem."

You may be interested in the Ithaka report ["What to
Withdraw?"](http://www.sr.ithaka.org/research-publications/what-withdraw-print-collections-management-wake-digitization "What to Withdraw?")
which asks when the availability and quality of a digitized version of a
print item warrants withdrawal of the item from circulating print
collections.

### Comments ###
* Melissa: WorldCat comes in handy to check for the "last copy" problem.
* dsalo: True, but I believe it's been found not to suffice; some libraries (even
research libraries) aren't members, and some special collections aren't
as well-cataloged as they might be.

