---
title : What methods have you effectively used to keep online tutorials up to date?
---
What methods have you effectively used to keep online tutorials up to date?
=====================
My digital library department is starting up an effort to create more
online tutorials (text and video) on how to do common tasks in digital
scholarship - using Google Maps to post a set of data points, using
Zotero to publish an online scholarly bibliography, using Google Refine,
etc. These would be targeted to our faculty that are starting to
incorporate digital methods into their work. We think this content is
valuable, and want to ensure we're able to keep it alive and relevant
over time. What methods have you successfully used to ensure content
like this is revisited and revised and kept fresh as it ages, while
still continuing to expand the content base?

Jenn Riley

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
First, what doesn't IME work: assigning people responsibility for
particular pages/tutorials/whatever. Update work isn't time-sensitive
and it IS nitpicky and boring, so it slips people's schedules and never
gets done.

What I'm pondering instead: periodic barnraisings, say twice a year or
so, where everybody gets together, triages problems, and fixes content.
With sufficient food and (nonalcoholic; we want the edits to be viable)
drink, and people who like each other, this seems better than having the
Sword of Obsolescence hanging over everyone's head indefinitely.

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Updating resource guides is a specific student-worker project at the
academic library where I work. It's assigned to an upperclass student
who is responsible for checking links in the guides. We also have a
spread sheet where library staff can add items for the guides, and the
student worker puts them on the correct guide. It seems to work well.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
When I worked for a university in the mid-to-late 1990s, we moved all of
our documentation to Word Perfect (hey, I said it was the 1990s ... it
was on a Wang before that) and generated an HTML version to place
online.

In the process, we added a 'last reviewed' date to *every* document,
rather than just a 'last modified' date. Then, over the slow periods
(winter holidays, summer semester), we'd go through all of the files to
see if they were still up-to-date.

We'd have the people working the front-line support (phones & walk-in
tech support) comment on what people seemed to have issues with, and
suggest revisions. All revisions were reviewed by the subject-matter
expert in the group. If there were no revisions, the document was
*still* sent to the subject-matter expert to look-over to make sure it
was still up-to-date.

Someone (typically me) was assigned to make sure that all of the
documents were reviewed and/or to hound the senior staff to get back
their reviews/revisions.

So, the key points:

-   We did most of the work during our non-busy periods, as we had
    predictable lulls in year.
-   The front-line support staff did much of the work (to respond to
    questions they got asked most often)
-   Subject matter experts reviewed all changes / lack of changes.
-   Everything was reviewed at least annually, and marked so our users
    knew it was up-to-date, even if the 'last modified' date was years
    in the last.
-   An overseer to make sure they all got reviewed.

These days, with CMS systems, it'd probably be easier to keep track of
how stale each file is getting, and what needs to be updated. Even if
you're only reviewing stuff annually, with with so much stuff being
hyperlinked these days, I'd suggest running linklint or some other link
checker to make sure you're not suffering from link rot.

Video's going to be messier to maintain, as you have to either stitch
changes in, or write a whole new script & get someone to do it ... and
not all people are cut out for doing presentations.

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
I think one of the best ways to think carefully about what you really
need and want to invest in creating localized documentation and guidance
for. That is, everything you create is a liability of going out of date,
so unless you have to give particularly important information about
configuring a tool for use at your organization or unless your users
have particularly distinct needs from other users I would suggest that
you first try and point out to high quality guides and documentation
that exist elsewhere.

When I worked on Zotero I spent a good bit of time reading a lot of the
guides that libraries provided. [Here are some examples of different
approaches libraries
took](http://www.zotero.org/support/third_party_documentation). In many
cases, I think libraries would do better to spend time reviewing
existing guidance documentation and then picking the very best
information from around the web and pointing users to that
documentation.

For example, in the case of Zotero, if there was some particular kind of
specific use case you wanted to write documentation it would actually be
much better to just [sign up for the Zotero
DokuWiki](http://www.zotero.org/support/dev/documentation) and write the
guide on the Zotero site where 1) it would be much more broadly used and
exposed as part of the Zotero documentation and 2) issues with it would
get reported in the Zotero forums and it would be maintained by a much
larger community.

So my overriding suggestion here is that the best way to maintain these
kinds of resources is to make as few of them as possible and when you do
decide to invest the resources in creating guidance either keep it light
and institution specific or if you are creating something sizable
consider composing it for a broader audience and sharing it with a
larger community that could have a stake in maintaining it into the
future.

### Comments ###
* Jenn Riley: Great perspective, Trevor - thanks!

