---
title: "iPads in Library Instruction"
layout: default
---
iPads in Library Instruction
=====================
Is the iPad a good tool to use in a library instruction session for a
freshman composition class? We are thinking of using 25 or so in our new
"instruction room" in the library. We will be using it to teach freshman
and others basic information literacy skills including using our catalog
and databases. We have no information that indicates most students have
an ipad of their own. So is this a good idea instead of buying laptops
or desktops. Also many of the librarians who will be instructors have
little or no experience using tablets of any type.

seawash49

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Could you give more information? What is the library instruction class?
I'm unsure if this is a class about the library or a class taking place
in the library.
* dsalo: And what do you need out of your tools? What makes a tool 'good' or not?
* Melissa: Is this a comparison question? Are you wanting to know if the iPad is
better than other technologies?


Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
If your composition class needs to write a lot of text, tablets usually
won't be the perfect tool for them. On-screen-keyboards tend to slow
down writing significantly, and there is little difference between
vendors about that.

To make good use of an iPad or another tablet computer, an entirely
different [interface
design](http://mattgemmell.com/2010/03/05/ipad-application-design/) is
needed. There are excellent examples for [things that
work](http://iphone.appstorm.net/roundups/design/30-examples-of-stunning-ipad-app-interface-design/)
vs. things that don't at the Apple Store. I'm afraid though that most?
OPACs were written with "traditional" web interfaces in mind though, so
unless you are willing to spend competent resources on writing your own
solution, you may only end up utilizing the tool as a replacement for a
screen-and-keyboard based computer.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
iPads are excellent tools for web browsing, which encompasses a lot of
"library instruction" since so many of our tools are web-based. But the
limitations (text creation being one that's already been pointed out,
but could also include flash-based content, need for
windowed-interaction, etc) might be hard to deal with.

I would be excited to design a class using iPads, but you'd have to do
the instructional design part carefully. On the upside, you could
include a lot of apps that would be inaccessible on a traditional
computer.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jennifer Davis
----------------
A good presentation on some of the tools available for instruction using
the iPad is available here:
[http://ocalamug.org/meeting\_notes/iPad-in-class.pdf](http://ocalamug.org/meeting_notes/iPad-in-class.pdf)
That is a presentation called "All I Take to Class Is My iPad!" by
Angeline Yoder, Ed.D, of the College of Central Florida. (It is located
several places on the web; that site is the Ocala (FL) Mac User's
Group.)

### Comments ###

Answer by andrea
----------------
whether or not it's a good idea depends on how it is used. an ipad is a
tool, and like all tools, only works as well as its' handler uses it. if
the purpose is to show the freshman class the library's mobile site, how
to use it, etc., that could be very useful. using the portability of the
ipad - by, say, walking through the stacks with one, using the library's
wifi - would also be useful, or at the very least get students hopefully
excited about the library's offerings.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Agreed -- the design of the class would have to be done around the iPad
and the features it offers over a laptop or desktop. Otherwise it might
be a large expense with a steep learning curve.

Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
I doubt it. Tablets don't really come with tools that help someone write
at a long stretch. Also, nearly everyone in the class won't have used an
iPad before, adding some learning curve to your teaching experience.
Develop the course first on the iPad and only then should you teach it!

### Comments ###

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
This does not sound like the best idea for the following reasons:

1.  Text input will be cumbersome.
2.  It will be harder to lock down the iPads in the way that computers
    can be locked down to prevent tampering, privacy concerns with user
    history, &c.
3.  If the iPads do not leave the room, portability is of little
    benefit.
4.  iPad specific apps will be accessible, but this does no good to
    incoming students without an iPad.


### Comments ###

