---
title : What research guide platforms are there beyond libguides?
---
What research guide platforms are there beyond libguides?
=====================
Libguides appears to be the clear favorite among academic libraries. I
find that libguides encourages building complex, unfocused, and
unattractive research guides. What alternatives are in production use?

Luke Gaudreau

### Comments ###


Answer by wdenton
----------------
There's [Library à la Carte](http://alacarte.library.oregonstate.edu/),
an open source system built on Ruby on Rails.

### Comments ###

Answer by phette23
----------------
I wrote to a listserv about this a little awhile ago. Here's my rundown:

> There are a few open source alternatives to LibGuides:
>
> SubjectsPlus:
> [http://www.subjectsplus.com/](http://www.subjectsplus.com/)
>
> Library A La Carte:
> [http://alacarte.library.oregonstate.edu/](http://alacarte.library.oregonstate.edu/)
>
> LibData:
> [http://libdata.sourceforge.net/](http://libdata.sourceforge.net/)
> (this one looks a little dated, would recommend looking at the two
> above before it).
>
> Then you could also build your own subject guide site using a CMS like
> Drupal or Wordpress with some taxonomy thrown in. There's [a Code4Lib
> article](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/76) that demonstrates
> how to do this with Wordpress, for instance. While that article is
> pretty advanced, setting up a blog (even a hosted one on
> wordpress.com) and using tags or categories for subjects isn't too
> tough.

The listserv question was more specific--what *open source* LibGuides
alternatives exist--but it answers this question well, too.

### Comments ###

Answer by Erin White
----------------
The platform will also depend on what you want to do with your guides.
Choosing a system for guides is a great excuse to evaluate the purpose
for guides themselves and change things up, especially if you have an
existing set of resource guides that's withering on the vine. For
example, if you're at an academic library and decide to forsake subject
guides and only create course guides, you may end up choosing a
non-guide-specific CMS that will integrate most easily with your campus'
learning management system.

### Comments ###

Answer by aaron dobbs
----------------
While the alternatives I know of are already in the answers above this
one, another option is to maximize the current product and your
already-created content...

Mini-reference interview:

-   Is there a consistent design or wrapper for the rest of the library
    website at YPOW?
-   How much control of design and layout do you (and your colleagues)
    have in YPOW's LibGuides system?
-   Was there a conscious decision to allow free-rein (assuming there is
    free-rein) in the LibGuides design and layout?

Roll your own options and LibGuides allow for custom site, branding, and
layout management tailored to the answers of these questions.

Having done the build your own guides (hand coded and cms) and then
switched to LibGuides (and now pulling together a book on how to do
LibGuides right), LibGuides has been much easier for MPOW and has been
very easy (for me) to manage and very easy (for my colleagues) to create
and maintain their own content in a managed wrapper.

Selection of a management system for course or subject guides is
different for for each library. I encourage you (and YPOW) to revisit
the goals you had in mind for them and make conscious choices about what
information you want to convey and the time and skill levels you have
available.

### Comments ###

Answer by Royce Kitts
----------------
Don't give in to the pressure to create the "complex, unfocused, and
unattractive research guides" of which you have seen. Dial it back a
notch and put in the guide only what you think needs to go in the guide.
In my opinion, LibGuides should contain the essential information you
want to provide. Sadly, some treat LibGuides as a bucket and toss
everything they can in it. The look of the guide is on you. Make good
choices.

### Comments ###

