---
title: "How do I find out about calls for papers for LIS conferences?"
layout: default
---
How do I find out about calls for papers for LIS conferences?
=====================
What is the best way for finding out about calls for papers for Library
and Information Science conferences? Or for finding out that LIS
conferences are taking place?

Rose Child

### Comments ###


Answer by Melissa
----------------
LIS Trends is a good place for conferences in both the United States and
internationally:
[http://listrends.blogspot.com/p/conferencesevents-2012.html](http://listrends.blogspot.com/p/conferencesevents-2012.html)
LIS Trends also lists which are available by Webinar -- a helpful tool
for those of us for whom travel is not happening.

### Comments ###

Answer by Erin White
----------------
**Finding conferences:** I find that much of the time, info on LIS
conferences is siloed within the professional organizations that sponsor
them. I usually seek out divisions of [ALA](http://ala.org/),
[ASIS&T](http://asis.org/), [ACM](http://acm.org/), and/or regional
library associations and find information on conferences from those
organizations' pages. Also: listservs, for better or for worse.

**Calls for Papers:** [A Library Writer's
Blog](http://librarywriting.blogspot.com/) has good info on CFPs for
conferences, books and journals, as well as a few links to other library
writing sites.

### Comments ###

Answer by Ben
----------------
Specifically for conferences the [International Calendar of Information
Science conferences](http://asist.org/Conferences/calendar/) is a great
place to start.

It's a little overwhelming, but a great way to find conferences that are
in your areas of interest and expertise and then dig down from there.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
I hate to say it, but I see most conference CFPs on listservs. Find the
two-three most appropriate to your work, subscribe, autofilter, then
every now and then search "CFP" in the folder you autofiltered them to.

### Comments ###

Answer by AaronC
----------------
Talk to people. I'm sure you know LIS is an enormous field (is it...
relatively?) with many subdisciplines, niches, and communities. Aside
from the answers given already (listervs are fantastic for CFPs), I
would recommend you find some people who are working in a similar area
as you (e.g. your direct colleagues) and ask them what conferences THEY
go to. Then, go to that conference and ask those people what conferences
THEY go to.

As for the CFPs--I've found these pile up in the inbox after you've
subscribed to enough listservs. Set up some email filters to help manage
the spam. Also, use the same tactic above: ask people where they have
submitted in the past, or anything on their rader now. Poke around and
find some people in your field that have CV's online and check out what
they have listed as publications, professional development, etc. You can
even see where they were publishing and what conferences they were
presenting at when they were at your particular stage in your career--if
they have a well organized CV.

Those answers may seem intuitive, but hopefully it sparks something for
ya.

### Comments ###

Answer by Simon Willison
----------------
Some library science professionals have collaborated on putting together
this guide to upcoming Library conferences on our site, Lanyrd:
[http://lanyrd.com/guides/library-conferences/](http://lanyrd.com/guides/library-conferences/)
- it has 18 upcoming events listed at the moment. You can subscribe to
an RSS feed or iCal feed of events in the guide, or sign in with Twitter
and track the guide in order to recieve updates via email.

### Comments ###

Answer by trevormunoz
----------------
Since no one has explicitly mentioned it, Twitter is also a good source
for hearing about CFPs. Many of the major library/archives/information
science organizations have feeds where they announce CFPs. Many
prominent conferences and journals have their own feeds of Twitter
announcements. Better yet, start following a group of interesting
librarians on Twitter---they'll often retweet CFPs for the conference
they're interested in.

This might replicate much of what you'd get from listservs but Twitter
can be another important information channel.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jen
----------------
I use Dolores' List of CFPs:

[http://www.personal.psu.edu/dxf19/blogs/dolores\_list\_of\_cfps/](http://www.personal.psu.edu/dxf19/blogs/dolores_list_of_cfps/)

It has some general humanities/education postings but general
library-related postings as well. Not comprehensive but sometimes I see
things there I don't see elsewhere.

### Comments ###

