---
title : How are libraries making use of Google+?
---
How are libraries making use of Google+?
=====================
Google+ is a relative newcomer to the social media scene, and offers
some interesting functionality for sharing and connecting with users and
a broader community. Where as Twitter and Facebook are probably fairly
well embedded in library outreach and engagement activities, I am
interested in how libraries are using Google+.

Does Google+ offer a more innovative way to engage and communicate? What
tricks and tips do libraries have for exploiting Google+ to its full
potential? Or does it simply lack the ubiquity and reach of Twitter and
Facebook?

Ben

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Doesn't Google+ frown upon non-individual accounts?
* ksclarke: Libraries can have G+ pages; I used to maintain a fairly large circle of
libraries who had pages (some more active than others)
* Ben: I know the New York Public library is very active on G+ (and a few
smaller libraries, both US and UK), so I would assume they're not
frowning that strongly!


Answer by ksclarke
----------------
There is a meta-page for Libraries on Google Plus:
[https://plus.google.com/117722006052787355791/posts](https://plus.google.com/117722006052787355791/posts)

This is basically just a listing of some of the libraries that maintain
G+ pages.

Awhile ago, I also posted a G+ circle of all the libraries that I'd
found on G+:
[https://plus.google.com/106980687849423472398/posts/jZiCvC3q9Vh](https://plus.google.com/106980687849423472398/posts/jZiCvC3q9Vh)

That was awhile ago, though, so I imagine there are many more out there
now (I stopped tracking them).

I think (from what I've heard) that a lot of folks are still taking a
wait and see approach to G+ (though there are some libraries in the two
circles above who are very active and actively engaging their patrons).
Ancedotally, the public libraries are doing more with G+ at the moment.
This might change in the future, though, as more universities use Google
Apps as their calendaring, email, etc. Once that happens, and Google
pulls Plus into the list of apps they offer in that venue, more student
engagement on Google Plus might give libraries more of a reason to do
outreach on Google Plus.

I do think the platform is an interesting one and as Google continues to
roll their apps together I think we'll continue to see a growth in
Google Plus use.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Hrm. Coverage of G+ in tech news indicates that Google's estimates of
use are wildly inflated, such that as best anyone can tell G+ use is in
decline. I'd be happy to see counterexamples? (ObDisclaimer: I won't go
near G+ because of their idiotic fumbling of the nymwars.)
* ksclarke: I agree Google's published estimates are wildly inflated; I also think
tech press of droves of engaged G+ users leaving G+ is also wildly
inflated. I think it's hard to gauge from the outside what's going on,
though here is one attempt:
https://plus.google.com/105279625231358353479/posts/Gz8i52zUunz -- What
I'd say is this, I think Google is getting enough engagement from G+
that they're moving their other services around it. No, it's not a
Twitter or Facebook killer but it's not going away either.
* ksclarke: @dsalo Btw, I followed you on there before the nymwars stuff. I was sad
to see you go, but understood your reasoning as well. I think they've
lightened up a little on it (though two months or so ago I heard a
little echo of it again).
* ksclarke: And, not speaking as a library but an individual, I've seen a lot more
engagement on there than on Facebook (which I've recently dropped) or
Twitter. Perhaps this is because it's more topic-centered vs.
who-I-know-in-real-life (FB) or
what-is-happening-in-my-workspace-or-in-the-news (Twitter).

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
My (public) library runs a [Google Plus
page](https://plus.google.com/105510969822001585834). Our general
guidelines are:

1.  Post material on a regular schedule--daily if possible.
2.  Interact with other libraries by reposting and commenting on their
    posts.
3.  Don't duplicate posts and information that is already available
    through the library's Facebook and Twitter accounts.
4.  Periodically search out and follow other libraries of all kinds, not
    just other public libraries.
5.  Post interesting articles on books and technology and refer back to
    the library rather than posting library-specific and time-sensitive
    events.


### Comments ###

