---
title: "What are some alternatives to fines that have been successfully implemented?"
layout: default
---
What are some alternatives to fines that have been successfully implemented?
=====================
If success is defined as:

-   negligible or manageable theft/loss
-   regulatable/observed loan periods
-   timely returns or efficient method of holds/recall
-   timely & cost effective method for replacing lost items

Just curious. Anecdata accepted. It came up in a conversation.

Let's limit the question to physical items (books, cds, dvds). Please
suggest how I could improve the question, and feel free to point out
related literature I should have read in library school--but didn't.

EDIT: for clarification of the original question title "alternative
lending systems w/o fines" [elsewhere on this
site](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/a/267/90) an 'honor system' was
mentioned.

AaronC

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Your question is worded oddly. Are you asking "What are some
alternatives to fines that have been successfully implemented?" The part
"(or alternative lending systems w/o fines)" is what throws me a little
bit. I do realize there are libraries out there that don't charge fines!
I think this is a great question but the wording is a little cumbersome.
* AaronC: @KatieR I hope I have clarified.
* KatieR: Yeah, I think that is a better wording. It wouldn't hurt to ask about
what libraries that do not use fines use instead to control their
collection regarding honoring lending periods. I would be interested to
know that as well. :)
* AaronC: I feel like I should select a "best answer" but the nature of my
question really left it open for a lot of equally good answers. I think
it is awesome what some people are doing: great ideas! I guess this is a
'meta' comment, but I'm still new to the stackexchange thing. Anyway,
I'd like to see more ideas if people have them--I don't think this
thread has become "discussion board-y" yet... do you?
* KatieR: Pick whatever answer you think answers your question in the most
direct/best way and then upvote any other answers you find really
helpful.


Answer by Peter Murray
----------------
I've seen integrated library systems use a system of demerits in which
checkout privileges are suspended for a period time when a threshold of
demerits is reached. See [UniSA Library - Demerit points and Library
fees](http://www.library.unisa.edu.au/services/borrowing/demerits.aspx)
for an example.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
It's not quite a fine *alternative*, but "fine holidays" often help
libraries retrieve materials thought lost. As a bonus, they can bring
patrons who fear or dislike fines back into the library.

A "fine holiday" is when a library sets a period of time (often a week
or two) during which overdue items can be brought back, and all fines
that have accrued on them will be forgiven.

### Comments ###
* Tatjana Heuser: Could you please explain "fine holidays" to, say, a martian? I never
heard the term before.
* dsalo: Oh, sure, sorry! A "fine holiday" is when a library sets a period of
time (often a week or two) during which overdue items can be brought
back, and all fines that have accrued on them will be forgiven.
* Tatjana Heuser: Thanks! Sounds like a great idea, and I can well imagine how it could
bring back items. Of course, if it recurs at a predictable schedule, it
might have a rather adverse effect...
* KatieR: I've seen it called "Amnesty Week" as well.

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
Columbus Metropolitan Library allows users to "read off" a portion or
all of their fines. Others allow volunteer hours in various capacities
to offset fines. This is a pretty useful policy, conveying that the
library's interest is more in readership than in money. Nobody wants to
be the Blockbuster of books.

### Comments ###

Answer by andrea
----------------
At my old library, patrons under the age of 18 could read off their
fines in the library during the summer months. It was a fairly lax
system - as in we didn't have to patrol their activity like policemen,
thank goodness, we were busy enough as it was - but I think it worked
well. For every half hour they'd read, we would take a dollar off their
fines. This accomplished three good goals:

1.  getting material back on our shelves, esp. crucial during the lean
    summer months of summer reading;
2.  getting kids in the library, which often then translated into
    attending summer programs, participating in book clubs, and just
    generally using the lib. more;
3.  helping our younger patrons feel good about the library, and not
    scared of it! we had some kids with fines of hundreds of dollars.
    they would have never come back to the library if we hadn't had a
    program like that.. and in fact, that's what happened to me as a
    kid, i had so many fines, i didn't go back to the library until in
    my twenties..


### Comments ###
* KatieR: I work in the Youth Department and we realize that it is often hard for
kids to pay off large fines. We offer them an opportunity to do
community service for the library at a rate of \$5/hour. This
accomplishes many of the same goals as your system. :)
* andrea: wish that had been an option at our library! community service hours
were always very hard to come by at our library, we had long long
waiting lists, and that was strictly due to lack of staff to supervise,
what a shame.

Answer by Cheri
----------------
Our library will take book donations of equal value or more. As long as
it is a book that can be used in the library. This seems to work well.

### Comments ###
* Joe: Wow ... we (the Friends group), have tried to give the stuff in good
condition to the library, but as it's all managed from administrative
offices and not the branch, they can only easily swap 'em in for missing
or damaged items.

Answer by eby
----------------
As many others have stated, alternatives to cash payment are helpful,
especially in younger age groups. Helps show a non-monetary mission and
also get involvement. This can include fine forgiveness coupons (as
prizes or earned), reading, community service.

While not dealing with any of your goals, online payment has helped with
payment of fines. Some now just keep it longer, finish and then pay the
fine since it is convenient. Not sure if this keeps holds manageable
with patrons not rerequesting things they didn't finish, but likely
leads to some longer loans.

One option I haven't tried but have been thinking of is more on the
encouragement side in the return courtesy notices (almost due). I've
been trying to find the article but there was one regarding putting
statistics on receipts like trees saved, etc when people failed to bring
their reusable, etc. It was worded well not to be insulting but places
saw an increase in customers remembering. It was adapted to other places
as well. I would be curious if any library has tried similar with
notices stating how many people are waiting for the item and encouraging
returning early if finished. Our current ILS doesn't make this easy
since it is dynamic but hoping to try it out in the future.

### Comments ###

