---
title: "Are any libraries experimenting with Arduino-like tools to gauge temp/noise/etc. throughout the library?"
layout: default
---
Are any libraries experimenting with Arduino-like tools to gauge temp/noise/etc. throughout the library?
=====================
There was recently a thread on the Code4Lib mailing list about this that
really interested me, so I'm asking here too (for maybe a broader
audience?)... I'm wondering if any libraries out there are using tools
to gauge things like noise levels, temperature, etc. throughout
different areas of the library. This could include big industrial tools
or smaller things like wifi-connected Arduino boards with on-board
sensors (which is really where my interest in the question lies).

If you are using tools like this in your library, what sorts of ways are
you implementing them? Do you have any public information on your
implementation that you could share?

ksclarke

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">untagged</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: Are you looking to know what sort of things that they are doing? Just
asking if libraries are using such things isn't very constructive - that
can be easily answered with a yes or a no.
* ksclarke: Yes, if you are doing it, what are you doing, what tools are you using,
do you have a public write-up about it (on your website or anywhere
else), etc. Thanks
* Joe: this might be a case of an [XY
problem](http://www.perlmonks.org/?node\_id=542341) -- the [original
Code4Lib
question](http://www.mail-archive.com/code4lib@listserv.nd.edu/msg13971.html)
didn't mention Arduino, just monitoring of temperature so that it could
be posted to a website.
* ksclarke: I'm interested in hearing about other approaches (other than Arduino),
but I'm particularly interested in Arduino so asked an open question,
but steered it towards what I'm really interested in. Learning about big
commercial systems for measuring temp (or smaller non-Arduino systems)
would be interesting to me, too... yes, I've sort of asked two questions
in one. I should say I'm not just interested in temp. Noise and other
environmental conditions (for which libraries don't usually have big
solutions) are interesting to me.


Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
I'm certainly thinking a lot about remote sensors, open hardware, and
Arduino these days, especially as they relate to my new library
building. I think it would be *brilliant* for students to have a "noise
map" that they could look at to find a quiet place to study. So yeah,
been thinking along these lines. I've got a
[Twine](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/supermechanical/twine-listen-to-your-world-talk-to-the-internet)
on order, and am paying attention to all the little sensor kickstarters
that are around these days.

I've also talked about this sort of thing a bit in recent presentations.
I think this general idea (open, cheap, ubiquitous measurement devices)
is going to change how libraries think about their collections. When we
can measure lots of things cheaply (how many people that come in the
building go into the stacks? How many people pull books out to see the
covers, then slide them back in? How many times does someone go into the
wrong set of stacks and doubles back to find what they want?) how will
our understanding of "usage" change?

### Comments ###

Answer by Matthew Robinson
----------------
I recently presented the use of Arduinos and wireless sensor networks to
my library as something to consider in the future.

My idea was to use Arduinos connected to cheap microphone modules to
measure the sound levels and then wirelessly transmit the data using
XBee modules. While MPOW wasn't particularly interested in the idea it
is still something that is in the back of my mind.

### Comments ###
* ksclarke: Neat, do you have that presentation up somewhere?
* Jason Griffey: Seconded...would love to see how far you got with this.

