---
title : Unique Adult Library Programs
---
Unique Adult Library Programs
=====================
What are some unique adult library programs that you have had at your
library that were successful in the number of attendees and the patron's
experience (educational/entertainment)?

Julie

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is just going to be a giant list of various programs - it does not
strike me as a very constructive question - Stack Exchange isn't a
forum.
* Anna Lear: Meta discussion about this question (and others of its kind) can be
found here:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/39/are-questions-about-programming-ideas-on-topic


Answer by Fisher
----------------
We recently ran a needle-felting workshop. There were 2 2-hour sessions
of 15 people each. Each session filled up at least two weeks ahead of
time. There was also a wait list. I had 6 or so patrons congratulate us
on such a wonderful program and 3 who weren't able to get in ask if we
were going to hold another one soon and if they could get on that list.

I think that fiber arts in general would probably be very well received,
too.

Part of the fun of advertising this program was that we displayed
samples from the person who ran the workshop. Patrons enjoyed looking at
the samples so much that I think next time we might ask participants if
they want to be part of a display after the workshop.

### Comments ###

Answer by MariBar
----------------
My library typically has greatest attendance numbers with history
programs, especially those involving local landmarks or military
campaigns.

As far as unique programs with high patron-experience scores, craft
programs win. For adults only, a series on book arts in which
participants created accordion-fold books and sewn pamphlets had
consistently high attendance. For a twist on traditional programming, we
also tried whole-family craft programs (for adults *and* children) on
papermaking, gyotaku (Japanese fish printing) and garden stepping stones
that were very popular. The only downside of the crafting programs has
been the large number of staff hours required for planning, set-up &
clean-up, but it really does pay off in positive community response.

### Comments ###

