---
title: "What policies/practices do research libraries have for collecting faculty members' personal papers and research materials?"
layout: default
---
What policies/practices do research libraries have for collecting faculty members' personal papers and research materials?
=====================
The personal collections of research materials, notes, papers, and
documentation that faculty members accumulate over the course of a
research project can be rich, interesting, and unique. Increasingly
these collections comprise physical and digital materials. Given the
interest within the library community in engaging faculty around data
curation, these personal research collections might form a good basis
for data curation services.

Of course, much of what faculty members collect might not be of enduring
value or have much research potential. Speaking anecdotally, I've found
this engenders some resistance to including faculty papers in collecting
policies or plans.

Do research libraries commonly collect faculty papers/research
materials? Are these kinds of materials addressed in collection
development plans or are they left to University Archives to accept or
reject? Also, does a faculty member or research project have to reach
some level of notoriety or fame for their materials to receive this kind
of attention

trevormunoz

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">academic-libraries</li><li class="tag">collection-development</li><li class="tag">research-data</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Joe: related: http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/8/
* trevormunoz: Thanks for pointing out the related thread. Part of what I'd like to
know beyond what's in the other discussion, are what (documented)
policies or heuristics libraries use to guide these kinds of decisions
if any.
* Trevor Owens: To keep this from being a list question it might be good to take the
"your" library out of the question and replace it with something like
"research libraries" or "university libraries."
* trevormunoz: Thanks for the suggestion. Edited accordingly.


Answer by Anna St.Onge
----------------
My institution acquires the records of faculty members. We have an donor
sheet that we give to faculty members who may be moving institutions or
(more commonly) retiring. Although we have the mandate to collect such
material, we also have our larger acquisition mandate that highlights
areas of research strength, so we have some wiggle room to say "no
thanks" to material that may not fit with our overall holdings.

I think we would privilege the records of a faculty member who is
donating personal records that also document other activities on campus
(administrative work, campus life, committees, etc.). We also collect
the records of departments, research centres and university
administrative units. The historical culture of our university is such
that many units were started as the result of strong-willed individuals,
as opposed to 'top-down' administrative decisions. Sometimes the best
way of documenting the actual development of the university is through
the records of such individuals.

Here's an excerpt from the acquisition guidelines for faculty papers:

"... [the university archives] preserves and makes accessible the
personal records of individuals associated with the University whose
papers possess enduring value. When reviewing potential donations to
determine if they should be acquired, archivists look for records that
reveal influences upon the perspectives of faculty and administrators,
provide evidence of their professional and personal activities, and
document their contribution to York University or a broader community of
interests. The records should promote an understanding of issues that
are likely to be the focus of research in the future, show change over
time, and be in good physical condition.

Records appear in a wide variety of formats and media. They include not
only documents created by a potential donor, but also documents received
from other individuals or organizations associated with the donor’s
activities. Examples of these documents includ

• Essays, examinations, course notes and thesis research created while a
student • Lecture notes, course outlines, reading lists, class lists,
examination questions, students’ papers, letters of reference and other
correspondence that document a teaching career • Original manuscripts
and typescripts of publications, and correspondence with co-authors,
readers, and publishers • Correspondence, minutes of meetings, reports
and other documents related to membership in professional
organizationes, journals and correspondence involving family, friends
and associates involved with personal interests • Photographs
documenting family, university career and professional activities

University records generated in an individual’s capacity as an
administrator (for example a dean, committee chair, or administrative
officer) should be transferred to Archives and Special Collections by
the office in which they were generated. Not all departments and
faculties, however, make transfers on a reg basis, so university records
are dealt with on a case-by-case basis if found among the personal
papers of donors."

Hope this helps!

### Comments ###
* trevormunoz: Thanks for this detailed and complete answer.

