---
title : Is the term 'Library' holding libraries back?
---
Is the term 'Library' holding libraries back?
=====================
With public and academic libraries increasingly adopting alternative
names for library services (knowledge centre; information commons
etc...), is this a good thing for the provision of information and
library services?

Is a change of name necessary as libraries adapt to the radical social,
financial and technological changes affecting (western) society? As we
reconstruct and reconstitute our information infrastructure does it make
sense to search for a new term that takes us beyond what is
traditionally understood as the library? Or is library a term that has
stood the test of time, and still carries weight in the modern world?

Ben

### Comments ###
* Joe: oh no ... it's
[ASKPro](http://www.libraryjournal.com/article/CA6711116.html) all over
again.
* Ashley Nunn: This sttikes me as more of a discussion topic better suited to a forum
than the Q and A model of Stack Exchange
* Melissa: It just seems like a senseless question -- who cares what it's called?
Not one with a definitive answer.
* KatieR: Agreed, there is no answer to this. Changing the word "library" or
"librarian" is just going to result in a longer-than-needed explanation
of a building or job title just for the layman to go "Oh! A
library/librarian!"
* dsalo: Disagree; there can be a concrete discussion of the connotations of the
word "librarian" and the effects of those connotations on the viability
of the profession.
* Ashley Nunn: @Dsalo the fact that there can be a discussion doesn't mean that it fits
here - in fact, it means that it definitely doesn't. SE is not about
discussion. It is not a forum.
* Peter Murray: It is not a senseless question, but it is also not a question with a
definitive answer. See [faq\#dontask].
* Anna Lear: This question is an excellent conversation starter, but as others have
pointed out it's basically discussion-oriented. This would be a great
topic for [chat], though.


Answer by Joe Montibello
----------------
I don't think that a name change is going to matter. If you have an
information commons and you can't show that it's providing good value to
the institution that funds it, it's just as likely to be cut down or
shuttered as a library in the same situation.

A public library that I worked for was on the chopping block a few years
ago due to city budget cuts. While this was a nice enough public
library, it wasn't exactly cutting edge. There was nothing like an
information commons there.

The library was saved because patrons came out in droves to the meeting
where the decision on closing it was to be made. People came and spoke
about what the library did for them, what value it had, and why they
couldn't get those same services elsewhere. One man spoke about how he
learned to read through a literacy program that the library provided,
and that he'd gotten the first job of his life thanks to skills he
learned there.

Public perceptions of libraries are not what we want them to be - I once
heard about a survey where college students thought, on average, that a
librarian had about a high-school diploma-level education. On the other
hand, individuals' perceptions based on experience are usually right on.
If you're providing good service, people don't care what you call it,
and they'll go to bat for you. If you're not, don't expect a huge outcry
on closing day.

### Comments ###

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
The word "library" has great currency and is easily recognizable to
users and non-users alike and generally attached to a concept of
learning and recreation. Changing it won't change perceptions of our
current relevance for the better . . . some of the vocabulary that we
use within the library, such as "reference" and "circulation" might
stand an update, however.

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Does it matter what it's called, really? A library can be known as a
computer place, an entertainment place, a knowledge place, a program
place or a book place -- it's what the library provides that matters. (I
also don't think how the materials are housed makes all that much
difference. One of my favorite libraries is in an old grocery store.)\
 In my opinion as a life-long library user (and now librarian myself),
what matters more is the approachability of the staff and
currency/availability of the materials.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jakob
----------------
I always find it a little bit stupid of libraries try to describe their
role and activities with alternative terms such as "information" and
"knowledge". These terms are used in a lot of contexts and libraries
have no clue about many of them. So using this terms is not professional
but meaningless PR talk in my opinion. The term "library" is not holding
back libraries. There are other reasons why some libraries struggle to
cope with current changes and changing names would not help. One should
better think about the actual role and purposes of libraries.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
So let's pick this apart a bit. Here are the problems I see spoken of
with respect to "library" and "librarian:"

-   Stereotyped, outdated, inaccurate perception of what libraries are
    like and what librarians do, especially keen among those who haven't
    darkened the door of a physical library in years, or ever
-   Corollary to the above, libraries and librarians have trouble
    expanding their remit because of all the stereotype-defiance work
    that has to be done. (This is perhaps most obvious with respect to
    digital work done in or by libraries, but information-literacy
    instruction has had to cope with this also.)
-   Strong feminized associations, which subjects libraries and
    librarians to all the well-known problems of other feminized
    professions (low pay, low esteem)
-   Information work happening outside the physical boundaries of the
    library (e.g. data curation, records management) doesn't get
    associated with it, even when the work is performed by librarians.

Changing the generic name of the physical building is unlikely to help
with any of the above; recall (those of you who are old enough) the
snickering over "sanitation engineers." If we look like we're trying to
cadge unearned prestige (which is, I'm sorry to say, exactly what the
ASKPro thing looked like from the outside), we lose.

Changing the name of the person or the person's job... might help, at
least in some eyes; I don't see any problem with "data curator" or
"records manager" or "UX specialist" or even "informationist" or
"knowledge manager" (though I have issues with some forms of KM), much
less "taxonomist" or "ontologist" or any of the other jobs we do.

Perhaps we don't need an overarching identifying term for ourselves any
longer. I like "librarian" and use it proudly and defiantly to refer to
myself, but if what used to be "one profession" becomes multitudes and
works in a multitude of places, that's not a bad outcome at all.

### Comments ###
* Joe: So years ago, I was at a [CODATA](http://www.codata.org/) conference,
and someone gave a talk where they had looked at how well the title
'data scientist' had been adopted, as that was the term that the group
had decided on. I pointed out that it's the managers and executives who
decide what your title is, not the person in the position. My job title
at my day job is either 'Principal Software Engineer' or
'Programmer/Analyst', but that only reflects a portion of the job that I
do. (and I still have no idea what a 'Data Scientist' does ... do
science with data? study data / informatics? )
* dsalo: Re data scientist: try Alma Swan "Skills, Role and Career Structure of
Data Scientists and Curators."
http://www.jisc.ac.uk/publications/publications/dataskillscareersfinalreport.aspx
(if the link hasn't b0rked). I don't entirely agree with Swan's
taxonomy, but others apparently do.
* dsalo: More to the point -- as the work world shifts, which it always does, new
titles will come into play. We can automatically scorn them and those
who hold them, clinging to Our Chosen Title, or we can embrace a variety
of jobs, titles, and people. I know which I think is more useful.
* Joe: By the JISC thing, I think I qualify as a 'Data Scientist' and a 'Data
Manager' ... and an argument could be made for 'Data Librarian' but I
got my library degree after starting here, so I didn't 'originate' from
the library community. (and yet, when people ask what I do, I tell them
I'm a librarian for science data)

