---
title: "Does your library encourage you to use and be involved with Wikipedia?"
layout: default
---
Does your library encourage you to use and be involved with Wikipedia?
=====================
Wikipedia is actively trying to involve the cultural heritage sector
with its [Galleries, Libraries, Archives and Museuems
(GLAM)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aGLAM) effort. A big
part of this effort has been [Wikipedian in
Residence](http://outreach.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikipedian_in_Residence)
programs at organizations such as OCLC, the British Museum, the British
Library, the US National Archives, the Smithsonian, etc (the full list
is available
[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aGLAM/Projects)).

The work of a resident has included training staff on how to use
Wikipedia as a reference source, edit articles, and upload content to
the media commons, as well as guidance on how to enrich Wikipedia with
links to content that libraries, museums and archives put online. There
is also the opportunity to do more if you have new ideas for
collaboration.

Does your institution encourage you to engage with the Wikipedia
community? Does it actively discourage you from using/contributing to
Wikipedia? Do you have any examples of things you have done with
Wikipedia in the context of your work?

Ed Summers

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: What do you wish to gain from this question? The part about "wishing
your institution would encourage engaging with the Wikipedia community"
makes this sound like a discussion. Are you looking to see what sorts of
things people have done with Wikipedia interaction?
* Ed Summers: Yes, I'm curious to know if people in libraries have done any
collaborative work w/ Wikipedia; or have opinions about doing it. I'll
remove the 'wishing' part :-)


Answer by dsalo
----------------
The [UW Digital Collections](http://uwdc.library.wisc.edu) does what I
understand quite a few other digital collections and archives do: try to
seed appropriate Wikipedia pages with links to relevant collections or
items.

Unfortunately, this doesn't always go smoothly; it's possible to have
one's account frozen due to an accusation of spamming Wikipedia. I
advise my lib-tech students to be circumspect!

That said, my understanding is that managing to place a good Wikipedia
link does indeed increase traffic to digital collections.

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: Yes, the GLAM effort does provide some organizational cover for
libraries to help position their content on Wikipedia. Seems like it
might also be useful to have some tools to make sure efforts to do this
aren't wasted.
* Ed Summers: I'm not sure if this is of interest, but it's possible to see what
Wikipedia pages link to UW Digital Collections using the [External Links
Search](http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:LinkSearch&limit=500&offset=0&target=http%3A%2F%2Fdigicoll.library.wisc.edu%2F)
It looks like there are currently 1,218 links, which is great!

