---
title : What research libraries still use the Cutter Expansive Classification system and why?
---
What research libraries still use the Cutter Expansive Classification system and why?
=====================
When I was at the University of Wisconsin I occasionally found my way up
to the library's Cutter Collection. While the Library shifted to using
LCC in the 70s they kept a set of books organized by Cutter's system. In
practice, I often ran into others from the history and history of
science departments browsing through the stacks. You can find guidance
docs about the collection from the [history
department](http://www.library.wisc.edu/guides/europeanhistory/guides/brows3.htm).
It was neat to see these older books organized together and set aside to
be browsed as a collection.

So, I'm curious to know a bit about the places that are still using
Cutter. Are they doing so because of the amount of work that it would
take to change? Are they doing so because it is what people know? Or are
their other arguments for organizing books this way?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by Fisher
----------------
The Forbes Library (a public library with a strong focus in research) in
Western Massachusetts [still uses the Cutter
system](http://www.forbeslibrary.org/research/index.php?n=Main.CutterClassification).
I suspect [Cutter's personal employment & history with
Forbes](http://www.forbeslibrary.org/cutter/cacutter.shtml) is a strong
motivation for still using it.

I don't think patron knowledge of the Cutter system is a high concern;
Forbes is part of a regional consortium and many patrons use other
libraries, of whom the majority of public libraries are using Dewey and
the academic libraries are using LC. I have heard impassioned speeches
regarding the superiority of Cutter classification, so staff are
supportive of keeping it.

### Comments ###

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
I don't know of any research libraries using Cutter as you describe. In
addition to Forbes, there are other public libraries in Western Mass
that also house Cutter-classified books. All local history books at the
Westfield Athenaeum are cataloged that way (even new additions), and
there are any number of Cutter books in the lower stacks at the
Springfield City Library.

I think the main argument for keeping Cutter books as Cutter books is
the amount of work to change the record, relabel the books, etc. There
aren't many libraries like Forbes, who have a tangible reason to use
Cutter's classification, and I doubt there will ever be any new
libraries that adopt it as a classification method. The Library of
Congress system is based in part on Cutter's classification. Another
argument might be that for certain topics, Cutter allows more
flexibility than either Dewey or LC in terms of cataloging.

### Comments ###

