---
title: "How are libraries supporting researchers in the preservation and/or management of data?"
layout: default
---
How are libraries supporting researchers in the preservation and/or management of data?
=====================
It seems that libraries may have a critical role to play in supporting
researchers in the management of their data. I am aware of some of the
work taking place in the UK via
[JISC](http://www.jisc.ac.uk/whatwedo/programmes/mrd.aspx), but what
other examples are there?

Ben

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">preservation</li><li class="tag">research-data</li><li class="tag">research-support</li><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">data-management</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
I know of two main classes of examples:

1.  Helping researchers with Data Management Plans. There's the original
    [DMPonline](https://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/) from the Digital Curation
    Centre, but UVa, Perdue, Cornell and others have similar efforts,
    either to help create boilerplate documents or do guided interviews
    to help the researchers write their DMPs. eg:

    -   [http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/brown/data/](http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/brown/data/)
    -   [http://www.purdue.edu/research/vpr/rschdev/proposal\_prep\_resources.php](http://www.purdue.edu/research/vpr/rschdev/proposal_prep_resources.php)
    -   [https://research.hub.purdue.edu/overview](https://research.hub.purdue.edu/overview)
    -   (Cornell has put their behind a login screen)

2.  Storage of the data in the library's Institutional Repository. For
    'small science' projects, it might be all of the data, but in the
    case of massive data sets, they might store some sort of proxy for
    the data to help make it more discoverable. (as the IRs typically
    support [OAI-PMH](http://www.openarchives.org/pmh/), so search
    engines can more easily harvest from them). Libraries can also mint
    DOIs (via [DataCite](http://datacite.org/) or similar) or other
    long-term identifiers.

...

Less directly, librarians have been helping with the push to make data
citation a norm, which we hope will both get researchers to formally
publish their data (and not just the results), and try to get tenure &
promotion committees to give value to data publication. Also, both
librarians and LIS folks have been involved with the [NSF
DataNet](http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=503141)
projects, to deal with the aspects of curation, long-term preservation,
information modeling and vocabulary reconciliation.

I have some [notes from the 2011 Research Data Access and Preservation
Summit](http://vso1.nascom.nasa.gov/joe/notes/rdap/RDAP_2011_report.html),
but I still need to get the videos from the 2012 meeting edited & posted
online. I believe the next (June/July 2012) issue of the [ASIS&T
Bulletin](http://www.asis.org/Bulletin/) will be primarily focused on
research data. (at least, my deadline was a month ago ... so if not this
one, the one after)

**Update:** The [June/July 2012 ASIS&T
Bulletin](http://www.asis.org/bulletin.html) has been posted, and
there's an article ['The RDAP12 Summit: Challenges and Opportunities for
Data Management'
(pdf)](http://www.asis.org/Bulletin/Jun-12/JunJul12_Wickett_Hu_Thomer.pdf)
[(html)](http://www.asis.org/Bulletin/Jun-12/JunJul12_Wickett_Hu_Thomer.html).
(although, they attribute a few things to Mark Martins, which was
[filler as Mark couldn't make
it](http://www.slideshare.net/asist_org/landing-pages-joe-hourcle-rdap12).)
And the [long term location for this
issue](http://www.asis.org/Bulletin/Jun-12/) if typical won't work until
the next one's published.

### Comments ###

Answer by AaronC
----------------
Joe just gave an excellent overview, so I'll take the "depth" approach
and answer with a 'how we done it good/bad' tale. Let me know in the
comments if this is helpful.

About two years ago we joined the bandwagon of libraries putting
together web guides for data management. I took a "lifecycle" approach
to our guide, and you can check it out
[here.](http://www.lib.msu.edu/about/diginfo/ldmp.jsp)

I met with some colleagues and we felt this was a really "reactive"
approach. We formed a small interest group called DIG (yes, "Data
Interest Group"), and out of that group we decided to take the issue to
our library colleagues via a presentation and discussion which you can
find
[here.](http://staff.lib.msu.edu/mooneyh/myresearch/DemystifyingDataAndScholarlyCommunication.pptx)

The discussion was especially fruitful, and we decided to meet again. We
invited some library colleagues to our meeting and held discussion of
more proactive models for engaging our faculty. The primary outcome was
the formation of our [Research Data Management
Guidance](http://www.lib.msu.edu/about/rdmg/index.jsp) team. This group
has been instrumental in many spinoff projects including:

1.  Face-to-face consultation on writing data management plans
2.  Presenting to our New Faculty Orientation and our Faculty Seminar
    series
3.  Presenting to graduate classes

We felt this was a good step, but again--nothing novel. We continued our
DIG meetings and tried to drum up a way to have a broader
impact--outside of the library. We were aware of an administrative level
task force that was looking at some of the larger issues that would
challenge the university, but there was little activity on the ground
level. We also knew that there were other "worker bee" people like us
siloed away in other departments and units, so we decided to reach out
to all of the research service providers across campus to invite them to
a kind of Meet N' Greet where we could eat bagels and swap stories. It
turned out that all of these people were interested in learning about
ways to improve the research data services they offered and also
advocating for the services of others (e.g. statistical consulting, high
performance computing, departmental storage...).

So, out of that meeting came two outcomes: the first was to continue our
conversation by regularly meeting (quarterly) and to develop a referral
network based around the concept of a 'service catalog.' These two
outcomes are currently in the works.

Anyway, I guess I should say what I learned from this process:

-   The best way to get engaged is to do the engaging. I've definitely
    had more consultations as a follow up to a presentation than the
    website has brought in.
-   Form an interest group. Make it a working group, not a committee.
-   Reach out to other service providers. Research services are often
    very distributed; use this to your advantage and engage the people
    doing the front-line work.


### Comments ###

Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
As others have pointed out, I think a big component to digital
preservation is education and social processes around the activity. [The
Signal](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/about/) is a blog that
folks in the [National Digital Information Infrastructure and
Preservation Program](http://digitalpreservation.gov) office at the
Library of Congress curate. They pull and create stories about projects
in the field. I think they've been surprised at how much the content is
of interest to not just practitioners but to the increasing number of
people who generate and collect digital content, and want to manage it.
Efforts such as [Personal
Archiving](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/personalarchiving/) help
document emerging best practices for people who have photograph
collections, email, etc that they want to keep, and perhaps one day
donate to an archive.

### Comments ###

