---
title: "What is the purpose of Cutter Numbers?"
layout: default
---
What is the purpose of Cutter Numbers?
=====================
I have seen Cutter Numbers used alongside the Dewey Decimal System. What
purpose do they serve? What is the benefit of using Cutter Numbers over
the first 3 of the author's last name (ie: 646.404 DOM for a book by
Erica Domesek)?

KatieR

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">classification</li><li class="tag">dewey-decimal-system</li><li class="tag">cutter</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Joe: job security? ?


Answer by dsalo
----------------
So that library-school students can have a secret handshake? (That's how
I teach Cutter numbers.)

Er, I think this is one case where the answer is just "tradition." That,
and Cutter numbers in their baroque way handle the case of multiple
authors with identical last names, which relying on last name alone
won't do.

### Comments ###

Answer by wdenton
----------------
It's a sort of [hash
function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function) that maps names
to simple combinations of a letter and one to three numbers. Combined
with a bit of human oversight it means books on the same topic by
different authors with the same name can be uniquely and accurately
identified.

As with all cataloguing practices, local needs come first. In your
example, if that works for you, great. But then how do you handle
another book on the same subject by Placido Domingo, and a third by
Vobiscum Dominus? Cutter numbers give you a simple and traditional way
of distinguishing them all and arriving at a unique call number for that
item.

### Comments ###

Answer by user1059
----------------
The author number created will help the materials being catalogue fall
into alphabetical order on the shelves.

### Comments ###

