---
title: "What's a quick way to explain what librarians are/do?"
layout: default
---
What's a quick way to explain what librarians are/do?
=====================
Okay, time for a way to answer the traditional problem of the
friend/relative/stranger who looks at you and says, "Oh, so you read
books all day?" or the politician who wants to know what you do that
can't be done by a few volunteers manning circulation (clerks/pages) and
buying whatever the heck they want.

Obviously individuals will be able to add something about their specific
job, but a framework elevator speech is still a useful (and sometimes
necessary) starting point.

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Added public-libraries tag because that's where it's most likely to come
up. "librarianship" and "elevator-pitch" are probably relevant but
non-existent, and I'm still a little reputation shy of being able to
create them. (I've asked another "elevator-pitch" question here as
well.) Tagging assistance would be welcomed.
* Peter Murray: Suggested adding the 'profession' tag. It is waiting for peer review.
* M. Alan Thomas II: @Peter: Approved; thanks for the suggestion.
* MDMarra: IMO, [profession] is a bad tag. It doesn't really add anything and can
be applied to pretty much every question since this is a site for
Library and Info Science professionals. It might be worthwhile to think
"would this tag actually be useful for categorization?" before creating
a new one.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: I voted you up on two things. You are now at 153 reputation and can
create the elevator-pitch tag.
* M. Alan Thomas II: @MDMarra: That's a valid concern, but I think in this case it depends on
how it's defined. For example, I saw a question about Cutter numbers the
other day, and while librarians do use them professionally, I don't see
how the /question/ is in any way about the "profession" of being a
librarian or information scientist. You see the difference? I'll see
about making a tag wiki entry to clarify this and promote proper usage.
If it turns out to be a problem, we can discuss removing it at that
time.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Note: The discussion on the "profession" tag has moved to meta:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/57/should-profession-be-killed-before-it-snowballs/
* user130: I like to add in something about improving our patrons' lives.


Answer by Peter Murray
----------------
"Librarianship is about connecting users to information and exercising
stewardship over information resources for the long term." This is
generally true, I think, as a single sentence about the profession, bit
it misses an education and literacy outreach component.

### Comments ###
* andrea: is this a quote from somewhere or just elevator-pitch-ready?
* Peter Murray: @andrea Otis something I came up with, although it has been undoubtedly
influenced by similar statements from others.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I'm going to check this off as the accepted answer, since it doesn't
look like we're going to get a better one, but I did up-vote answers by
Joe and Tim Ireland below that I think have something to contribute.

Answer by andrea
----------------
Librarians help people find information.

And then if there's any interest in that statement, then I'd state that
there's lots of different types of librarians and of course information
comes in all kinds of ways, but that in a nutshell we're all more or
less trying to help people find what they want to know about.

Pretty darn basic but that's what elevator pitches are about. A lot
depends on delivery I think. ;) ..For the politician, I'd show cold hard
numbers of patron usage, including programmng numbers etc and for the
disbelieving friend who thinks we just read all day, I'd tell them some
short vignettes from my work days.

### Comments ###

Answer by AaronC
----------------
"Librarian" carries baggage, so I'm not going to try to change someone's
perception in 30 seconds. They know we are somehow tied to books &
library buildings. We are smart people who know how to answer tough
questions. When I talk about what I do, I try to talk at the task level.
Let them use whatever big picture they have already developed.

My elevator pitch goes something like, "I meet with people a lot; I
consult on under-the-hood projects like digitizing books and building
websites. I also teach and lecture on a variety of topics about digital
projects. My main responsibility is improving our methods for storing
digital files; it gets tricky when you get into the terabytes."

Then the conversation generally gets around to iTunes and software for
managing pictures; of which I really have no expertise, but I toss out
some fancy terms sometimes and offer general guidelines that you could
just as easily find on Lifehacker.

Anyway--I really think focusing on your tasks will give a clearer
picture than trying to sum it all up in one sentence about information
and knowledge and access.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
~~Collect, organize and distribute information.~~

(that's about as short as I can get it, while hitting 90% of what most
of us do)

**update** just a bit longer, but to get in the 'curate' role:

Collect, organize, protect, improve and distribute information.

### Comments ###
* Peter Murray: And 'curate' -- some notion of the caretaker role.
* Joe: @Peter : I agree, but we likely need a different word -- otherwise,
you'll have to spend the next few minutes explaining what 'curate'
means. Checking a synonym ring (which gave me religious people for
'curate'), there's two basic concepts -- protection vs. adding value.

Answer by Tim Ireland
----------------
I tell people that I have not had two days the same since I started. I
assist people not only in finding information, but how to efficiently
find information to best suit their needs. -I teach Grads, undergrads
and faculty how to search and retrieve (circulating) books and articles
from anywhere in the world! I teach people how to determine "movers and
shakers" (which items and people are the most influential) in whatever
field they are researching. I also oversee the purchase of specific
items for specific disciplines.

Unfortunately, I have not read nearly as many books as backs of books!

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: I like the "no two days the same" bit; it emphasizes a diversity in our
profession that can't really be covered in the time available.

Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
Librarians are about helping users find the right books and information.
This usually means teaching them how to ask the right questions. A
patron comes in and says "I want to learn about cats." The librarian
asks questions to find out the real is a book on how mammals are born.
This is why librarians can't be replaced by the internet. Librarians
teach and guide.

(I tried to show how librarians aren't administrators without saying it
because I want the listener to arrive at that rather than hear it. I
also focused on the most obvious example. Librarians do so much more but
one can only cover so much in an elevator pitch.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Michelle McLean
----------------
In the public library, its not only about finding the information they
want. My job is about connecting people with what they are looking for -
whether its information, escape or relaxation, through reading, watching
a DVD or listening to a CD. Its my job to ensure they can do this as
easily as possible and not only connecting them once, but as many times
as possible to what they seek. And its also my job to ensure that they
can still do, even when I am not there to assist.

### Comments ###

