---
title : Why is there no coordinated action of libraries to negotiate jointly prices and the transformation to Open Access?
---
Why is there no coordinated action of libraries to negotiate jointly prices and the transformation to Open Access?
=====================
The mathematician Gowers recently wrote in his much-noticed blog post
"[Elsevier - my part in its
downfall](http://gowers.wordpress.com/2012/01/21/elsevier-my-part-in-its-downfall/)"
about the absurd situation in academic publishing:

> A possible explanation is that to do something about the situation
> requires coordinated action. Even if one library refuses to subscribe
> to Elsevier journals, plenty of others will feel that they can’t
> refuse, and Elsevier won’t mind tuch. But if all libraries were
> prepared to club together and negotiate jointly, doing a kind of
> reverse bundling — accept this deal or none of us will subscribe to
> any of your journals — then Elsevier’s profits (which are huge, by the
> way) would be genuinely threatened. However, it seems unlikely that
> any such massive coordination between libraries will ever take place.

Can anyone explain why such massive coordination between libraries is so
unlikely? Given the fact that the m with serials prices is well known
since many years and it affects almost all academic libraries (including
[Harvard](http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2012/apr/24/harvard-university-journal-publishers-prices))
it's really surprising that the library community seems unable to take
jointly a stand against the big publishers.

Christian

### Comments ###
* Joe: related : [Priem & Hemminger, (2012). Decoupling the scholarly
journal](http://www.frontiersin.org/computational\_neuroscience/abstract/14455)


Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Consortium is typically the best way to combat these kinds of actions.
Libraries do work together regionally in this way. In extreme price
hikes, they do collaborate in bans such as the University of California
system ban on Nature for their 400% price increase.
[http://classic.the-scientist.com/blog/display/57491/](http://classic.the-scientist.com/blog/display/57491/)

Many of the vendors don't even work with consortia or work very well
(Overdrive is a good example of that,
[http://librarianinblack.net/librarianinblack/2011/12/overdrive.html](http://librarianinblack.net/librarianinblack/2011/12/overdrive.html))

The Digital Public Library of America also has this as a focus:
[http://dp.la/wiki/Main\_Page](http://dp.la/wiki/Main_Page)

Much of the time, a library's focus in on their community not someone
else's. Even though a price hike effects everyone, the local politics
may dictate for them to continue with it rather than rock the boat.

### Comments ###
* Joe: Consortia may just mask the problems -- like the [California/Nature
incident a few years
back](http://chronicle.com/article/Nature-Publishing-Group/65848/) ...
Nature blamed the 400% increase in prices (when they had said they had a
7% cap) on the removal (scaling back?) of CDL's discount.
* dsalo: Having run a consortial institutional repository and been involved with
another, I can tell you that getting a consortium to pull together is
worse than herding cats. For anything novel, like open access, forget
about it; there's always a conservative somewhere on the committee to
scuttle it.
* Christian: During the California/Nature incident, there was a remarkable comment
from the CDL that, if they were able to hold their discount for such a
long time, means that all other libriaries just paying too much over the
same period. It seems to me that consortia just have inreased the
intransparency, because every consortia deal is tailored especially for
one consortia.

Answer by Peter Murray
----------------
High-energy physics is one discipline that is exploring this through the
[SCOAP3 project](http://scoap3.org/ "SCOAP3 project homepage"), and
there are some libraries and library consortia working on that effort. I
think it is much more likely that we will see discipline-oriented
efforts succeed (rather than library-oriented efforts) because the
authors will be in the drivers seat making the change.

### Comments ###
* Christian: Would be great if there will be other initiatives like SCOAP3. If the
SCOAP3 will ever take off, this would probably indicated that a central
coordiation like CERN is probably what is missing at all in other
disciplines and in general.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Why would you think there *would* be a collective response?

-   Far from all librarians, much less all library administrators, are
    convinced that open access has legs. (I've worked for and with many
    that didn't.) A good many, in smaller schools especially, have yet
    to figure out that open access is a thing, even.
-   Many librarians (again including administrators) believe that the
    purpose of collections money is to, you know, buy stuff! For the
    local patronbase! Insofar as open access doesn't work that way, it
    runs counter to how they think the world works, how they think it
    *should* work.
-   Institutional repositories have on balance (and with exceptions)
    been abject failures. Given that, many librarians are understandably
    skeptical of OA rhetoric, some of which is rather overblown (and I
    say this as a staunch OA advocate) or abusive of libraries and
    librarians.
-   When faculty say "jump," librarians say "how high?" Faculty have not
    exactly said "let's jump to open access!" Twelve thousand Elsevier
    boycotters, while significant, is a needle in the haystack of US
    faculty, never mind worldwide. Librarians can be forgiven for
    thinking "not yet."
-   Have you been watching the convulsions over small-scale
    collaborative collection development at all? Large-scale
    collaboration is not a thing US academic libraries *do*. (The
    situation's a little different in the UK; JISC applies cattleprods
    when it sees fit.) This may change somewhat with the advent of Hathi
    Trust, but not quickly.


### Comments ###
* dsalo: I should add to this that the major journal monopolists muddy the waters
with non-disclosure agreements on their licenses. Libraries can't even
legally find out what other libraries are paying for journals! There
have been attacks on this secrecy, typically through FOIA requests to
public universities which libraries gleefully fulfilled, but it's still
a tremendous barrier to a sane, transparent journal market.
* phette23: I'm curious as to why you think most IRs are failures. Maybe I just
haven't heard of the ones that failed (because they failed, right?) but
it seems that there are several extremely successful ones providing
access to millions of items collectively.
* dsalo: Well, there's a definitional issue here -- what's success? -- but I've
run two of the damn things, and if "open access to the peer-reviewed
literature produced by the institution" is the success metric, forget
about it.

Answer by kfortney
----------------
Believe it or not, there's also the specter of antitrust litigation. The
Sherman Antitrust Act "prohibits collective action in restraint of
trade. The most significant area of antitrust concern for associations
is price-fixing. Price-fixing in the association context is broadly
construed to include any concerted effort or action that has an effect
on prices, terms or conditions of trade, or on competition." (from the
American Association of Law Libraries,
[http://www.aallnet.org/Archived/Advocacy/Vendor-Relations/faq.html](http://www.aallnet.org/Archived/Advocacy/Vendor-Relations/faq.html)).

For more on this, you may wish to read:

Greene, Hillary, Antitrust Censorship of Economic Protest (March 1,
2010). Duke Law Journal, Vol. 59, No. 6, 2010. Available at SSRN:
[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1593184](http://ssrn.com/abstract=1593184)

### Comments ###
* Christian: Never thought about that aspect! And stil, after reading the SSRN paper,
I can't see how you can interpret the basic idea behind antitrust in the
direction that action like the mentioned boycott of Cell Press in 2003
is prohited. Sorry, to bring up such concerns in the middle of boycott
may prove a good undestanding of law paragraphs, but lacks any sense of
what is righteous.
* kfortney: I'm not saying it's the most useful way to interpret antitrust law. But
your question is why isn't there more coordinated action. The natural
coordinators of action would be library associations; they're never
going to do it because they're risk averse and their lawyers have told
them it'd be risky.

Answer by Jenn Riley
----------------
Part of the reason is funding and influence from the campus rather than
the profession. Academic libraries get their operating funds from their
campuses, and their institution's faculty and students are their closest
and most primary clientele. (Though of course not the only one.) It's
extremely difficult to make a long term and wide view case for the
greater good when there are everyday immediate research and teaching
needs standing in your building, sending you emails, and accessing
articles through your big deal subscriptions. On a daily basis, academic
libraries and their directors are answerable more directly to their
campus administration rather than to their profession. It takes some
very strong leadership, both at the library and the campus level to be
able to look beyond these more immediate needs in a systematic way.
There's some of that out there, but not enough of it yet to have
achieved the kind of coordination that would be necessary to make what
Gowers is calling for a reality.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: I've seen librarians frankly afraid to bring the question up because of
this. "The Provost doesn't approve" is a killer.
* Christian: The money spent on serials belongs often to the items on the the top of
a library budget. And it's the item which the biggest [increase every
year](http://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2009/06/01/consumer-price-index-oa/).
Wouldn't it be just appropriate for library and campus administration to
approach this issue with a high priority? From all stakeholders on a
campus, the library is the one with the most insight into the
problematic of serial prices and Open Access.
* dsalo: Right, although in entirely too many libraries "the most insight" means
"a thimbleful, maybe." Which means the job in front of us is catching
everybody else up. Which means goring a lot of oxen and sacrificing a
lot of sacred cows. \*Which has gotten librarians, including library
administrators, fired\*. See the problem?
* Jenn Riley: It's absolutely an issue for \*libraries\*, but it's not clearly an
issue for campuses, and that's where the money comes from. Again, of
course it's an issue for campuses, but so indirectly that only the best
of leaders can see through it. Libraries can't set their priorities
based solely on cost increases - campus services are our public face and
are critical. I'd love to see the kind of leadership that would cut
through all this. I have a feeling we'l be waiting a while.
* Christian: Is it really that hard to see the advantages of Open Access? Taking all
the reports, studies a personal experience from the community, it should
be easier today for a library to get commitment for an Open Access
strategy than for a Facebook-page. But yes, this probably really needs
leadership. When you think Open Access to the end, you’ll see radical
changes for our profession ahead of us. Maybe this is frightening to
some of us, and therefore we rather don’t push Open Access too hard.
* Jenn Riley: What I'm saying is the campuses have most of the inertia to stay in
place, not the libraries. Sure, libraries need better leadership to do
this too, but no matter how good our leaders are, we can't make these
coordinated efforts without our campuses backing us. It's of course easy
to see the advantages of where we should be, it's a LOT harder to
actually implement a transition that allows research and teaching to get
done during the transition period. If you have specific contributions to
how the transition period can be managed successfully, by all means,
bring them to the table.
* Christian: Research libraries & consortia could try to include the insitutions
publication behaviour into the negoations. Today mostly it's only about
access and download statistics. Libraries often know quite well, what
their clients are reading, but have no idea in which journals they are
publishing. Knowing this relation, there might be a chance to negotiate
some kind of deal: Libraries could buy APC-contingents for \$30'000 when
at the same time the licence fee is lowered by \$30'000 or even
\$25'000. For such more or less cost neutral deals, you don't need huge
support from the campus administration.

