---
title: "How much damage do silverfish do to library books? "
layout: default
---
How much damage do silverfish do to library books? 
=====================
I once opened the pages of an old copy of Richard Dawkins' "The Extended
Phenotype" in a library, and there was a dead silverfish in between the
pages of a book...

InquilineKea

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">preservation</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is asking two questions at once, one of which is going to change
pretty rapidly and is pretty hard to keep track of - I would suggest
taking out the second question, and perhaps making the actual body of
the question a bit more detailed, with something other than the personal
anecdote.


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
[It really depends on how large the infestation is, and how long it has
been going
on](http://www.unesco.org/webworld/ramp/html/r8820e/r8820e05.htm).

> Damage to paper products from silverfish is caused by their direct
> feeding on the materials. The feeding of silverfish results in
> irregular feeding areas that exhibit characteristic "thin spots"
> Silverfish do not have strong chewing mouth parts and therefore tend
> to sit on the surface of the paper and gradually abrade the surface.
> In some areas of the damage, the feeding will result in irregular
> holes in the paper. In other areas, however, the feeding will not
> break entirely through the paper and will result in thin spots or
> simply the removal of the printed word.
>
> When silverfish feed on printed materials, they often leave a fine,
> pelletized frass (excrement) which is black and resembles a miniature
> mouse dropping. Under magnification, this residue is fairly easily
> distinguished as individual pellets or droppings. This material
> accumulates under items or may be scattered randomly over surfaces in
> darkened areas. It may also be found on the interior of acid-free
> storage boxes. Large amounts of frass may be found in attics insulated
> with cellulose insulation (ground up newsprint).

They prefer moist, dark environments, so ensuring that they don't have
that kind of environment to thrive in will go a long way to ensuring the
safety of the books and other materials. [This
article](http://www.wvu.edu/~exten/infores/pubs/pest/hpm8002.pdf) speaks
mainly of silverfish in houses, not libraries, but the advice holds.

> Silverfish are usually introduced into houses from an outside source.
> Prevention of silverfish infestations should begin with sanitation.
> Vacuum cracks and crevices to remove dust and lint. Keep bookcases
> clean by vacuuming and shaking out books. Don’t allow piles of old
> papers and magazines to accumulate. Check old bks before bringing them
> into the house. Store starched linens in sealed plastic bags. Seal
> cracks and crevices with caulking compound to reduce the number of
> hiding places. Make the environment less attractive by reducing the
> humidity with a dehumidifier. Anhydrous calcium carbonate, a
> dehydrating agent, is effective in removing moisture from the air in
> closets and other small spaces.

There are also chemical solutions to silverfish problems, but those can
also harm the books and other materials - these solutions are best left
to people with more expertise in these things, especially where a
library collection is concerned.

### Comments ###

