---
title : How do libraries determine if users are accessing subscribed eresources using Google?
---
How do libraries determine if users are accessing subscribed eresources using Google?
=====================
Is there a way to determine the number of users accessing full text of
library subscribed database via Google search, or via Google Scholar?

aarontay

### Comments ###
* jdscott50: Can users get to library databases via google? I thought that was hidden
by the invisible web?
* Ed Summers: s/Googel/Google/
* aarontay: You can google for an article title, it might bring you to a
sciencedirect page or jstor page. The you can login using athens or
manually add the ezproxy stem etc
http://www.lib.umich.edu/mlibrary-labs/proxy-server-bookmarklet
* Peter Murray: Ah, that isn't a 'database' in he sense of an index/abstract service.
(That is what I think of as a 'database'.) 'digital-collections' may not
be the best tag either because that is commonly used for library-hosted
content.
* aarontay: hmm wouldn't databases include full-text databases? I would think for
most users the idea that a library database is I&A only is a more alien
idea than full-text databases. Anyway yeah, digital collections is not
suitable, I couldn't find a better tag and I don't have enough points to
add new tags


Answer by Ben Ostrowsky
----------------
It looks to me like you can [use your own link
resolver](http://scholar.google.com/intl/en/scholar/libraries.html#start4)
with Google Scholar's Library Links program:

> **I have a home grown link resolver. Can I still sign up for the
> Library Links program?**
>
> Yes, but it will take some work. First, edit [this
> file](http://scholar.google.com/intl/en/scholar/institutional_links.xml)
> and put it up on your library website. Next, make your link resolver
> export your electronic holdings in [this
> format](http://scholar.google.com/intl/en/scholar/institutional_holdings.xml)
> and put those files up on your website as well. Finally, email us the
> URLs for these files. We'll review your configuration and get back to
> you within a week or two. Once we add you to the program, our robots
> will periodically visit your URLs and update the links on our website
> appropriately.

Your link resolver can then track the HTTP referer and other juicy
tidbits of information about who's using which databases and how they
found them. If your authentication page happens to include some [Google
Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics/) code as well, so much the
better.

If you want the same Google Analytics information about on-campus users
who are authorized by IP address, you might consider an interstitial
page saying "Now forwarding you to (resource)... click here if it
doesn't load", and have JavaScript do the forwarding *after* Google
Analytics exits. **But tread carefully here**, as you'd be
inconveniencing your users in order to get better statistics, in order
to learn how to better serve your users, when one important way to
better serve your users is to — wait for it — avoid inconveniencing your
users!

### Comments ###
* aarontay: Yes, we do use the Google analytics code on the authentication page and
also yes using link resolvers using the google library links program. We
don't allow on-campus users authorized by IP so not sure how that works,
all have to use ezproxy to gain access.

