---
title: "Why are many small branches better than big central libraries?"
layout: default
---
Why are many small branches better than big central libraries?
=====================
Most years my local library system (Queens NYC) goes through a process
where:

1.  extreme budget cuts threatened
2.  library threatens to close all neighborhood branches on weekends and
    one or two weekdays
3.  many protests
4.  some money appears
5.  small cuts

My question. If it comes down to cuts, why is it not better to close
some branches entirely and keep the others open more hours with more
books. I can walk to three libraries from my home. It seems like it
would be better to have fewer branches and have them open more. Or even
just have fewer central libraries. But this never gets proposed so there
must be a reason.

Jeanne Boyarsky

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Do you go to the town meetings where they discuss these things & propose
your idea? Also, your question about Saturday hours isn't related to
your title question.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: The Saturday comment was supposed to be an example. I've removed it
since it wasn't adding clarity.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: I've never seen signs about a town hall for the library. (I have for the
train/bus service.) I live in NYC. The library isn't considered pure
government so wouldn't be covered in a pure political town all as far as
I know. It doesn't really matter for my library though. I was curious
what reasons could be.
* KatieR: It should matter because if it happens to other libraries, it can happen
to yours. Since you mentioned NYC, try http://www.savenyclibraries.org/.
When you say why are smaller libraries "better" than big central ones,
do you mean why are big central libraries more likely to get budget cuts
(my assumption based on your question)? If so, thats quite an ignorant
statement as all public libraries have faced cuts, including my small
town library.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: KatieR: No. I mean that the local library favors having many small
branches over consolidating.
* KatieR: Consolidating? Into what? One library building? That would make it
infinitely difficult for communities to access a library if they are far
from that one building.


Answer by Ben Ostrowsky
----------------
Having many small branches is better than having big central libraries
because **some patrons can't afford public transit**, let alone a
privately owned vehicle. To centralize library services would mean that
some parents could no longer walk with their children to the library,
which would deprive those kids of **cultural resources that could help
them rise above the poverty** in which they're growing up. Better
instead to have small branches in every neighborhood (and transfer
requested books from one branch to another) so that the public library
is not, in effect, restricted to those who are rich enough to travel
downtown.

### Comments ###
* Jeanne Boyarsky: That would be true in general. In our case, multiple branches are
walking distance from each other. Which doesn't require transit.
Children are an interesting point though. They can't walk as far by
themselves.

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
Short answer: Local politics. We are facing a similar budget issue at my
library, where the central library and 10 branches serve a population of
about 150,000. The branches are useful for a geographically sprawling
city, but they are currently open at such minimal and bizarre hours that
they shouldn't be described as fully functional libraries. Some of them
were opened in locations that are very near to other branches, and
consolidation would be a very feasible option.

However, every time someone proposes closing a branch, the residents in
part of town make their disapproval known, and the branch is kept open
for political reasons. It's not a question of not wanting to close the
branches, or not thinking that resources are stretched too thin with too
many locations and not enough staff/funding. With budget cuts looming
once more, my director has presented the mayor with a plan to close two
to three branches, saying that we can't keep them open with the budget
as it is projected--throwing down the gauntlet, as it were. We'll see
what the response is.

### Comments ###
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Excellent point. I happen to live nearest to a library that wouldn't be
threatened so not thinking about "but I want the library 2 blocks away
not 18".
* Helgagrace: According to the news today, we will be closing three of our nine
branches, unless there's some kind of huge public outcry. The comments
on the article
(http://www.masslive.com/news/index.ssf/2012/06/post\_306.html) seem to
be more about government cars than any outrage about library closures.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Often, local politics will keep a small branch open when it seems
redundant or little used. It's a feather in their cap to keep it open.

### Comments ###

Answer by andrea
----------------
What if the same were said for other public spaces/facilities? Like,
isn't Central Park enough of a park for Manhatten, why would they need
others? Or, one or two post offices for Queens is plenty, right? etc
etc.

Libraries are not just a place for books and as public spaces become
increasily rare, they are sometimes the only space where communities can
come to gather.

Practically, I think generally when faced with potentially big budget
cuts, most librarians would rather give up some services than an entire
branch, even if they're little ones far-flung from downtown's city hall.
It takes decades for a community library to be built planning-,
budgeting-, and building-wise. Once a branch is gone, re-purposed into
(most likely) some other local gov't space, the odds of ever getting it
back is close to nil.

Library hours and staff, on the other had, can fluctuate quite a bit and
still bounce back fairly easily once lean years have passed.

### Comments ###
* Jeanne Boyarsky: I never thought of the library has a community space/gathering space.
Which it clearly is with all the events. Maybe that balances being able
to walk to multiple libraries - different hubs?

Answer by Henry Mensch
----------------
I assume "better" really means "more useful."

One answer can be that the neighborhood branches meet the
presumably-less-sophisticated needs of the communities they serve. For
these people the large central and regional libraries are perhaps
intimidating, and the local branch has most of what they need on hand
along with people who can help get the information they need from those
other places when necessary.

### Comments ###

