---
title: "when cutting hours, which days to pick?"
layout: default
---
when cutting hours, which days to pick?
=====================
This is related to my [other
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/509/why-are-many-small-branches-better-than-big-central-libraries).
When the local Queens library system cuts hours, they always cut weekend
hours first. Some people who work can only come on weekends. Whereas
people who can come on Wednesday, can likely come on Thursday.

What reason would there be to not close branches on weekdays? Ideally on
different weekdays so there is always a branch open in the area.

Jeanne Boyarsky

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Could someone who downvoted explain why this is off topic or a bad
question. I'm not ranting about my library. I'm curious what the logical
reason is. Maybe it is budget (people cost more on Saturday), maybe
something else.
* MDMarra: Probably because it's more of an economics/workplace question than a
library one. The problem isn't specific to a library, so it could be
closed as off-topic. Also, there's really no way for anyone to give a
definitive answer to this unless a user happens to be on the board that
made this decision. That makes it too localized." Maybe
workplace.stackexchange.com would be a better fit?
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Fair enough. I'll accept KatieR's answer (which does answer the
question) to avoid further comments/off topic-ness.
* Peter Murray: A question more suitable to the Stack Exchange format is 'what are the
factors my library should consider when deciding to reduce hours?'. It
would hen be up to you to determine the data behind he factors and to
weight them in a way that is appropriate for your library.


Answer by KatieR
----------------
See the Free Library of Philadelphia. When they cut hours, they adjust
hours at each branch while taking other area branches hours into
consideration to allow for a nearby branch to be open any day of the
week. They take the same approach when deciding which ones to close.

Of course this doesn't work if the library is a one-building library.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
This is way too localized of a question to give a single definitive
answer.

I've been arguing for the need for our library system to return their
Sunday hours, but the argument for cutting it is the contract with the
union -- Sunday hours automatically get time and a half pay. (I've put
in a suggestion that they try to renegotiate the contract to get each
person to designate their Sabbath day, with the theory that some people
would prefer to have a different day of the week off).

There's also the issue of if it makes sense to cut a full day out of the
schedule, or to reduce the hours on given days. You'd have to look at
the branch's activity, and see if it makes sense for some of them to
open a little bit later one or two days a week rather than close
completely.

But you have to be careful about these things, as closure of one branch
could then drive up traffic at the next nearest one. (one of the
complaints about how the post office proposed to remove dropboxes that
weren't getting enough activity, was that they didn't take this into
consideration, and so proposed removing whole swaths of dropboxes in
some cities)

The first thing I'd recommend you do is find your local Friends of the
Library group -- they're going to stay informed of when meetings are to
show up and protest. (they've been referred to as the [library
mafia](http://www.gazette.net/article/20120209/NEWS/702099906/1010/-library-mafia-rallies-to-protect-branches-as-budget-cuts-eyed&template=gazette)
in our county). I've shown up at town halls where the topic's
'education', and complained about how education doesn't stop when you
leave school, and the county's claim of being for education is really
being for schools, as they keep cutting the library's budget. (and as
they were too shocked to respond, I was about to rant for quite a bit
before I put down the microphone). As the squeeky wheel gets the grease,
you have to complain, and make it well known to the politicians that
you're unhappy with the cuts to the libraries, and get people to the
meetings to speak up, too.

### Comments ###

