---
title : If a book is open access online is a university library less likely to buy a copy?
---
If a book is open access online is a university library less likely to buy a copy?
=====================
One of the claims against open access books is that university libraries
won't use their budgets to purchase a copy. (I have heard this from a
few different academic book publishers.) Is this true? Do libraries
check to see if there are online open access copies and use that
information to decide not to purchase a book? Or are there libraries
that will go out of their way to purchase copies of these kinds of books
to further support the open access movement?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Funny you should ask! When our institution was contemplating an
electronic theses and dissertations program, I (as library
representative on the ETD working group) was sent to ask our collection
developers this very question.

The answer was a resounding "huh?" Nobody I talked to considered this
even a remote factor in collection-development decisions. In the
specific case of books that were originally theses, our collection
developers were well aware that dissertations and books are different
enough that a dissertation is not always an acceptable substitute for a
book derived from it.

More generally, I believe investigations on the publisher side have
shown mixed and unpredictable effects on purchasing from making a book
available OA. [This recent (and OA) article on the
subject](http://dx.doi.org/10.3998/3336451.0014.109) may be of interest.

### Comments ###

Answer by Stephanie Willen Brown
----------------
At this point, I am still buying print books, even if they are available
online. I'm a small branch library within a large university (with my
own budget), and in two cases I can think of, I have acquired the print
version of an online book. And in both of those cases, I know that the
print book has circulated within the past 2 years. One book is open
access and the other is proprietary, but both are easily accessible
online to our patrons -- and they still prefer to borrow the print
title. hope that helps!

### Comments ###

Answer by kfortney
----------------
We're a research university, not a huge one - about 15,000 undergrads.
Our collections budget has been cut about 30% in the past 3 years. As a
rule do not buy things we know we have alternate access to - through a
package, or because it's freely available online. Places with a rosier
budget picture may well have different options.

Having said that, for individual works there's not an efficient way to
determine that at this point - I don't search the web for every title I
consider purchasing. Additionally, most of our purchases come on our
approval plan, which does not check for such things. I only check for
certain things I buy with discretionary funds, like conference
proceedings and certain publishers I'm aware of (like National Academies
Press).

### Comments ###

