---
title : Circulating mobile devices
---
Circulating mobile devices
=====================
How are libraries managing mobile devices for patrons?

Are any circulating Kindles, Nooks, etc. or offering classes to the
public for these?

Pam Henley

### Comments ###
* jambina: we don't offer classes to the public on using these, since most know
what they're doing before they borrow (iPads, iPods, Sony Readers), but
our ref desk does a lot of work troubleshooting - mostly because our
vendors don't play nicely with mobile (hullo Overdrive) despite
proclaiming to. classes, or online tutorials with bookmarks from the
mobile devices with "click here for help" might be the way to go.
thanks!


Answer by Brett
----------------
We've got 6 iPads & 6 Sony readers listed in our catalog like we list
our 10 laptops. The Sony readers are loaded with easy readers for our
EFL students and the iPads have a set of apps for language comprehension
and Internet access (thats the most popular use)

We're not doing classes righ now, though they are in a planning stage.

### Comments ###

Answer by Debrarian
----------------
At Multnomah County Library we are offering classes on the use of
e-books and downloadable audiobooks. You will see the current workshops
at
[http://multcolib.org/events/ebook.html](http://multcolib.org/events/ebook.html).
They include one called "Is This Thing On? Get Help with Library2Go" and
another called "E-Books and More 101." We also make appointments to help
individuals learn to use their Kindles or other e-readers.

We have amassed other resources for patrons about e-books and other
digital downloadables here:
[http://www.multcolib.org/ref/ebooks.html](http://www.multcolib.org/ref/ebooks.html)

We do not circulate mobile devices yet, but we are experimenting with
iPads (locked with cables to tables in the kids' areas) loaded with
selected apps for kids and teens.

### Comments ###

Answer by user130
----------------
We lend out Kindles, Nook Colors, a Nook Touch, a Sony eReader, 3M
eReaders, and iPads. We have patrons just come down to the computer lab
and make their request for a device. A few times a year we hold open
workshops for patrons to come in and ask questions about how to add our
eBooks to their devices. I have also created video tutorials and
co-created written handouts that we keep at several of our service
desks.

### Comments ###
* Kode: How do you handle patrons bringing in their devices? I'm just now
transitioning into a position where I'll be working more and more with
technology like this and I've been told that we have a pretty strict no
touching policy with regards to devices we don't own.
* user130: Usually it's more of "okay, now click here..." though I had a lady come
in who could NOT understand how to click the arrow keys. We don't seem
to have any official policy besides trying to help however we can unless
we think it might be dangerous then we advise them to take it back to
the Apple store for guidance.

Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
The [Queens Library](http://www.queenslibrary.org/) (a borough in New
York City) is running a pilot where [50 Nooks are available for
checkout.](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304356604577338200273264824.html)
This is the first experiment of this nature in NY. The Nooks can be
borrowed for 7-21 days and are only available at the main branch.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
We are not at this point circulating the devices, but our librarians are
trained in the devices and we have demonstration models of the most
popular devices at our information desks. Besides being able to ask the
librarian on duty for help, our users can also attend bi-monthly
classes, pick up a how-to pamphlet, view how-to videos on our website,
or drop in to our weekly iTeen sessions (teen volunteers, who are
trained by an adult volunteer, give a couple of hours a week to help
library users with ANY device: ereader, phone, camera, laptop, etc). We
have tried to offer the information through as many avenues as possible.

The greatest challenge is that there are so many devices and they all
work a little differently. Over time, different staff members have
"specialized" in particular devices, and we often refer questions to
each other rather than all trying to be experts. In my personal
experience, users have been very patient if I do not have an immediate
answer for what they are trying to accomplish and will wait graciously
while I research. Sadly, we are spending a lot of time supporting
devices for a service (downloadable books) that is awkward to use,
expensive, underutilized, and lacking in resources (the whole
uncooperative publisher issue).

### Comments ###

Answer by Cathay
----------------
In Delaware, I know some libraries have been exploring this option, and
like others have mentioned, it's mostly been with "filled" readers that
have a supply of books from a particular genre or grouping, such as
"popular teen fiction".

But as Mary Jo Finch states, the variety of devices and the challenges
regarding changes to platforms, reader software, and publisher copyright
perceived needs have us scrambling for the most current information in
"how to" formats that are easily understandable. This is especially
crucial for library staff who do not own or have any experience with
these devices. In our state, we have tried to address this with offering
a limited number of devices for staff to learn on, and to demonstrate to
their customers (through workshops and one-on-ones as time allows).
Readers are primarily being used in this capacity.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
I do regular webinars on this topic, and have written two different
[Library Technology Reports](http://www.alatechsource.org/ltr/index)
through ALA on it (the newest one is out this very month). There are
lots of libraries doing this, and what and how they are managed varies.

Some circulate devices without content, relying on the patron to connect
it to their personal account and load it up...others circulate loaded
with library-purchased content. Still others (MPOW) circulate the
devices loaded with Public Domain titles for patrons who want to see
what the device is like, often as a trial before buying their own. There
are few management tricks for eReaders, but if you are considering
circulating iOS devices you really need to take a look at [the Apple
Configurator](http://www.apple.com/support/iphone/enterprise/) as it
makes managing iOS devices for your patrons or staff much easier.

### Comments ###

Answer by aslum
----------------
Our 4 branch system has 6 Nook Classics, and 2 Kindles (e-ink, not sure
the exact version). Originally they checked out for 3 weeks, but we've
temporarily reduced the period to 2 weeks due to very high demand. The
devices have about a dozen books preloaded. Patrons who check out the
Nooks can download books themselves through our OverDrive offerings.
This isn't as easily done with the Kindles as the device would have to
be re-registered to the patron in question to allow download of Kindle
titles from OverDrive.

We also have a few Nooks and Kindles for Staff use, and I know we're
getting a Sony eReader as well, though I'm unsure if it's for Staff or
Public use.

We've also partnered with Best Buy and they've sent some representatives
to do a program where they go over the basics of the different available
devices and answer questions for our patrons about their devices. We've
generally had Best Buy do an hour presentation, and then had an hour of
Q&A w/ Library staff (and to some extent the Best Buy staff) helped
patrons get onto OverDrive and download eBooks.

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
We recently started circulating Nooks. Barnes and Noble has a program
specifically designed for schools and libraries to lend Nooks. We
purchased 30 Nooks and divided them into different genres, Fiction,
Non-Fiction, Mystery, Romance, and Teen. Each Nook is pre-loaded with
five books (as the limit per title is six devices per Barnes and Noble
requirements). When we announced the program, we check-out all of the
Nooks in two days. We chose pre-loaded since we had many patrons coming
in wanting to use our Overdrive E-book service, but were completely
unfamiliar with the e-reading devices. This helps promote the e-book
collection and introduces the public to reading alternatives. We also
have a class on e-books that began when we first started the e-books
collection.

I have a write-up here:
[http://gathernodust.blogspot.com/2012/05/future-of-reading-barnes-and-noble-nook.html](http://gathernodust.blogspot.com/2012/05/future-of-reading-barnes-and-noble-nook.html)

and Sacramento's Program information is here:
[http://www.saclibrary.org/?pageId=1465](http://www.saclibrary.org/?pageId=1465)

### Comments ###

