---
title: "What are good, free or cheap cataloging systems for personal or small-library use?"
layout: default
---
What are good, free or cheap cataloging systems for personal or small-library use?
=====================
Because the budget and staff of either situation would be minimal, the
major needs of such a system would be as follows:

1.  Low price, preferably free.
2.  -   Can be installed with a basic level of technical proficiency.
    -   Does not need intensive programming.
    -   Can be maintained with minimal technical proficiency.

3.  Can pull MARC records from a reasonable variety of sources.

Please feel free to comment with additional qualifications if you think
I've missed something.

M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">software</li><li class="tag">cataloging</li><li class="tag">opac</li><li class="tag">small-libraries</li><li class="tag">home-libraries</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: When a similar question was asked on Unshelved Answers, the following
names came up: Koha, Delicious Library, Evergreen, DataCrow, Shelfari,
and BookCAT. Of course, I'm asking a slightly different question and the
landscape might have changed in the last few years. (I'll add what
answers I can when I've got a bit more sleep; for anyone doing research
in the Unshelved Answers archive, the original post had the ID 1413.)
* Gem: Does it need an OPAC that allows borrowers to browse the holdings from
the internet?
* M. Alan Thomas II: I didn't specify that because a home library wouldn't need it and a
small library might be willing to forgo that option. However, it may be
a factor worth mentioning, even if only to note its absence.


Answer by jdscott50
----------------
LibraryThing provides this option and also has a product called
LibraryThing for Libraries. Evergreen and other open source are, of
course, free, it just depends how much expertise you have.

A library could use LibraryThing to catalog and maintain their
collection. It would be for a very small library and a small collection,
but it has been done and LibraryThing would help with that.

When you are looking for products that don't require downloading of
anything, that gets into Software as a Service (or the "cloud" as it is
popularly called). Many library ILS vendors offer this, Polaris,
Innovative, even OCLC are good examples. They host everything for you.
This might be out of your price range for a small library though.

There are also Open Source Products that you can download and set-up
such as Equinox/Evergreen. The company can provide some support, but you
have to pay developers to customize it to your need. There are hidden
personnel costs in programming, but it is still cheaper than any of the
larger ILS Vendors.

I guess it depends on how small a library it is; LibraryThing for
Smallest, Open Source, then bigger vendors.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: So there's two LibraryThing options. Could you detail how they fit the
stated criteria (especially relative to other product) and how they
differ from each other?
* M. Alan Thomas II: Good expansion; thanks. An answer like this adds a lot of value to the
question.
* Fisher: I'd like to disagree that open source is the in between step for
LibraryThing and vendors. More than 1/3 of my (admittedly small) state
is now using a customized Evegreen system. Evergreen & other open source
systems are what you make them, and Evegreen in particular has the
ability to handle a lot. The trick is in having staff, servers,
knowledge, training base, etc to do so. Vendors are paid to come with
such things.
* jdscott50: I wasn't trying to say of what Evergreen can't do in that statement.
Just that it is easier and cheaper for a small library to install it
than other vendors like Polaris, Innovative, etc.
* Gem: From my experience, LibraryThing works well for very small collections.
I'd consider it more of an inventory system, you can easily keep track
of what you own, rather than a circulation system. Last I checked, there
wasn't an easy way to specify borrowers, check-in/check-out dates/times,
etc. I believe LibraryThing for Libraries is for enhancing existing
catalogs. Not necessarily providing a specialized catalog for libraries.

Answer by Court
----------------
In my small corporate library, we use LibraryWorld. It operates in the
cloud and is still allowable through firewalls. LibraryThing was an
option, but as mixed media os not allowed through our corps firewalls.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Welcome to the Libraries SE; it's good to have a corporate librarian on
board for that expanded point of view. You've got a good point about
checking IT policies when operating in somebody else's system, but could
you expand on how LibraryWorld fits the specific qualifications in the
question?

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
Having been a developer on both Koha and Evergreen, Koha is still by far
the easier system to install. On debian/ubuntu, among others:

> sudo apt-get install koha-common

With significant adoption in India and southeast Asia, Koha is the go-to
FOSS platform for small libraries. If you accept running a less than
cutting edge OS for testing purposes, you can use existing install
guides that literally show every command along way. That is, it requires
only that you follow directions exactly. (However, this is not
necessarily a reasonable way to approach production server deployment
and maintenance.)

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: I can't find \`koha-common\` on Debian, at least. Nor \`koha\`.
http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=koha-common&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all

Answer by Gem
----------------
I don't have any direct experience with small ILS options. However, a
couple of years ago I did a brief search for a very small school. Two of
the options at that time that sound most relevant were:

-   ResourceMate -
    [http://www.resourcemate.com/](http://www.resourcemate.com/)
-   OPALS -
    [http://www.mediaflex.net/showcase.jsp?record\_id=52](http://www.mediaflex.net/showcase.jsp?record_id=52)

I haven't used either of these but they sound like they might meet your
basic requirements. Neither are free but, on the other hand, they appear
to require very minimal in-house technical skills.

Evergreen and Koha are both very good open-source ILS options. However,
I would hesitate to suggest them unless you have a couple people who are
very comfortable with computers. The school I mentioned above use to
have a full ILS system until the one person who knew it left. No one
else had the time, inclination, or ability to learn it so they went back
to using a physical card catalog.

### Comments ###

Answer by Peter F
----------------
NewGenLib is incredibly easy to install I found by following some basic
instructions on their site, at least compared to Koha and other similar
ones. Any question I had were responded to by the following morning (The
developers are in India).

It has quite a nice back end interface, very professional but can take
some getting used to. It can be integrated with VuFind too I believe.

Though as an earlier poster said, Koha might be easier in Ubuntu etc.
The terminal installations are a breeze once you get used to them.

### Comments ###

Answer by Canadian Girl Scout
----------------
Our small religious library uses ResourceMate, which has already been
mentioned by @gem. It's a useful database that (wonder of wonders) can
still format and print cards for card catalogues. It can also be
upgraded to read bar codes, track loans, patron fines, etc. I'd like to
point out though, that the most useful tool, the ISBN retrieval,
requires an ongoing annual support fee of about \$85/year. This also
gets you excellent technical support over the phone. They have helped me
through many problems and assisted in setting up reports and getting
everything exactly as we want it. But if you are looking for 'preferably
free', then an annual expense may not be what you want.

### Comments ###

