---
title: "Integration of parental permission system with existing circulation management?"
layout: default
---
Integration of parental permission system with existing circulation management?
=====================
Recognizing that DVD borrowing has become a fundamental part of any
public library system, there may be a need to verify the age of a
borrower before allowing them to take out a DVD that is not age
appropriate.

How could a system of age comparison (e.g., borrowers must be 16+ before
taking out an R rated disk or TV-MA set) and/or one that has an function
for permission by parents ("I waive this requirement for my child") be
automated alongside of, or integrated within, an existing circulation
system?

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">circulation</li><li class="tag">patron-management</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Does your existing ILS allow for family accounts or linked accounts
(parents can see what is on their children's accounts because they are
financially responsible for those accounts)?

The libraries where I have worked have always made it a policy of not
acting *in loco parentis* - it is the parents' job to know what their
kids are reading and watching - not ours. If you take responsibility for
keeping children from watching videos intended for a more mature
audience, then parents may expect you to also take responsibility for
keeping their children from reading materials intended for a more mature
audience - and how would you do that?

To have an effective age comparison system, as you suggest, you would
find yourself in a position of needing to collect birthdates for members
in order for the comparison to be up-to-date (generally not advisable
for privacy reasons), and you would probably also have to limit members'
ability to update their own accounts (teens could go in and change their
birthdates or the permission setting).

### Comments ###
* KatieR: I agree with all of this. Expect we collect birthdates strictly to
maintain computer access. We have separate areas for certain ages & pc
reservation allows us to limit what ages can login to what computers.
But completely agree with not acting in loco parentis.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
You can categorize the card as Child, Teen, Adult, and create a type of
the R-rated film. When a child or teen checks the DVD out it would
create a block to the staff member. If a parent provides permission,
then the block is removed. Most ILS systems have this functionality
built in. I agree with not acting as the parent, but some libraries do
get pressure on this issue. You can do the same thing for Internet
permission. You don't need a birthdate to keep track.

### Comments ###

Answer by cpikas
----------------
At my local publib (where I worked for 3 years), only adult cards can
check out DVDs. I believe it was originally a cost issue, but it serves
this purpose as well.

### Comments ###

