---
title: "What are the main difficulties of handling ejournals and ebooks compared to print journals?"
layout: default
---
What are the main difficulties of handling ejournals and ebooks compared to print journals?
=====================
Besides the difficulty of managing ejournals and ebooks compared to
print versions. Why is eresource management, keeping a accurate
knowledge base etc is so hard?

aarontay

### Comments ###
* Mary Jo Finch: Your question seems to negate itself... "Besides the difficulty of
managing ejournals...why is eresource management so hard?" Are you
looking for information on specific difficulties people have run into in
managing eresources?
* Joe: I don't know if it's a 'difficulty' so much as a 'problem' -- if you
have to cut back funding, you tend to lose access to \*all\* of the back
catalog, not just you stop getting new issues. I've been recommending
that MPOW move the paper journals to storage, so we would have them for
negotiating contracts with the publishers.


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Assuming one doesn't have a vendor ERM product, one must maintain or
handle:

1.  A-Z lists
2.  Holdings in the OPAC (and whole records for newly-acquired journals)
3.  Link resolver knowledgebase (which I'm told is tricky to
    troubleshoot)
4.  Proxy server (with all the IP address fiddling that entails)
5.  Usage stats (even when they say they're COUNTER compliant, they're
    often not... and not all of them even try for compliance)
6.  Invoicing, bills, etc.
7.  Troubleshooting, when something in the above rickety stack goes
    wrong. As it does.

That's a lot. And I probably missed some things!

### Comments ###
* Joe Atzberger: 8. Data format. 9. Device support.
* dsalo: Could you elaborate? I'm not sure what you mean by "data format." Does
"device support" mean mobile, ereader, both?
* Joe Atzberger: Electronic content is delivered in a given format, like PDF, ePub, TIFF,
MP3, AAC, etc. JSTOR, for example, links you out to install Acrobat
Reader, Flash, Windows Media Player AND Apple QuickTime if you want to
be able to access ALL indexed content. That's a serious compatibility
burden. While reasonable given the extent of content, it prevents
certain devices from access... to certain content (e.g. iPad won't run
flash). Because of this, the YOU end up being tech support for the
patron who thinks it \*should\* work a new device. Or when security
settings prevent QT from installing. Etc.
* aarontay: I am a bit confused about the difference between ERM and a link resolver
knowledgabase. Eg. III ERM is the knowledgebase for webbridge, so
wouldn't owning a link resolver knowledgabase automatically mean you
have a erm? Or is erm here to mean the ability to add licenses etc etc??
Similarly I am of the impression A-Z lists are populated from
erm/knowledgebase. eg serialssolutions 360core feeds straight to their
EJ portal. Basically i am confused abt diff between erm and
knowledgebase.
* dsalo: I'll suggest that that's worth a separate question, Aaron.

Answer by eclecticlibrarian
----------------
The main thing I find, aside from dsalo's list, is that you are working
with virtual items rather than physical, which means your workflow must
change to include more documentation of where you are in the process.

If you subscribe to a print journal and it doesn't arrive when you
expect it to, your ILS usually notifies you that it's late, and then you
can do something about it. Not so with an ejournal. Usually it's your
ILL or public services departments that notify you when you don't have
access, unless you dedicate staff to checking every title on a regular
basis.

### Comments ###

Answer by smatheson
----------------
One other thing that is different than handling physical items is that
the various packages and aggregators present a moving target of titles
and coverages. This is a part of daslo's \#3 above.

If you receive and checkin a journal issue, it stays on the shelf (or
checked out) until you bind it or weed it. If you add holdings for "The
Journal of Irreproducible Results" from a package or aggregator, then
next year the package changes, that journal disappears.

This is why large or serials-intensive libraries often use a third party
service to track these changes and populate their knowledgebases and/or
catalog holdings. Examples are Serials Solutions, Ex Libris SFX
Knowledge Base, Worldcat knowledge base. These services allow librarians
to say "We have package X" and lets the service keep track of what's
actually in that package.

### Comments ###

