---
title : In what ways does your library promote professional development of non-professional staff?
---
In what ways does your library promote professional development of non-professional staff?
=====================
It is often difficult due to rigid organisational structures for library
assistants, who may already have degrees, to break into the library
profession. Do any libraries out there have programs that help
facilitate the shift from 'assistant' to professional?

Steve Fleming

### Comments ###
* amedinasmith: I'm not sure I can add clarity, but I was confused by this question. I
first read it as "how do libraries promote training/prof development for
paraprofessionals." Would it make more sense to rephrase it as "In what
ways does your library promote the advancement of paraprofessional staff
to professional positions?"
* KatieR: When you say "degrees", do you mean bachelor degrees or an ML(I)S?
* Flimzy: This is worded like a "What's your favorite \_\_\_\_?", which is
off-topic according to every FAQ on the SE network. Can the wording be
changed so it's not a poll question?
* Steve Fleming: Apologies all I was cut-off mid sentance when my browser crashed! To
reiterate, I am a Library assistant in Australia with several years
experience in Academic libraries and a bachelor of arts in film studies.
I believe the question is both relevant to the forum (in that it asks a
direct question) and is understandable as it is written (Judging by the
amount of interest it has generated). Thanks for all your feedback! :)


Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
Anecdotal data: My friend has a degree in library science. The majority
of non-assistant jobs she saw were for part time evening/weekend
positions. It would seem that would be one way to break in. However, it
has the huge disadvantage of not being a full time job and not having
health insurance.

It also doesn't really address the question as it isn't about developing
internal staff specifically.

### Comments ###

Answer by Bibrarian
----------------
While I can't vouch for other libraries, I can explain how I do it and
how my system helps the "non-professionals" learn and advance.

The first thing to know is that I work in a large branch but with a very
tight knit crew. We love working together and I don't see anyone at my
branch who's a non-professional. We're all pros, simple as that. As the
local tech guy, I wind up teaching the staff about tech and computer
things like changes to the ILS, eBooks, and stuff like that. The thing
to note is that I teach this stuff to everyone, including Pages. Why?
Because I have two people who are now Library Assistants who stated as
Pages. We like to "grow our own" people and one of the best ways to do
that is to give everyone the information. When they get promoted or go
on to a different branch, they've got some knowledge and skills that
make them stand out from those who don't.

Beyond that, I hold one on one training sessions with anyone who wants
them. Doesn't matter what they want to learn, I'll teach them. A few
days ago one of my Pages came to me and asked how to search the ILS for
specific books. As a Page, she really doesn't need to do that because
Pages aren't working the desk or helping people with specific book
queries. But as a staff member for a public library, at the very least
she wanted to know how to find books for herself. So I showed her. Does
it fall within her job description to know that stuff? No. Will it help
her move up if she decides to be something other than a Page?
Absolutely. Isn't that what professional development is for?

And finally, on the system level. Whenever there's a training that comes
up, no matter what it is; something big at the Carnegie downtown, might
be some informal session at Admin, or an all hands thing at the branch
EVERYONE can go. We'll note it on the yearly evaluation that they've had
training and education above and beyond and we explain to them that this
kind of thing helps when other positions open up.

It boils down to this. We're a library, and we believe in sharing
information, no matter what the relation is to someone's job
description. After all, knowing how to do X and Y when no one else in
the interviews knows how to do it makes a real difference!

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
I work in a smallish academic library -- three librarians and one full
time assistant. The full-time library assistant is a member of the state
library association and attends the annual conference with the
librarians. She also attends workshops in the area on Interlibrary loans
(which she is in charge of), and copyright since she works with
reserves. We receive a monthly list of free webinars from the state
library association that the library assistant may register for as she
sees fit. The library assistant participates in annual faculty readings
and all library training. Perhaps this seems excessive to some? Since we
are a small library, we wear many hats and cross-train so that we can
help each other as the need arises. The training, development and
supervisory experience (of student workers) as well as time on the
reference desk are helpful in moving into librarian jobs, as three of
four of the last assistants have gone on to library school.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I am not sure whether you are asking this from a library assistant's
perspective or management's. Are you a library assistant who would like
his library to develop a program or are you a manager who wants to know
how to develop library assistants to their full potential? I will try to
answer from both sides, having sat on both sides in the last few years.

As the HR person for a library, I have to consider the needs of the
library first when I hire. We try to keep a mix of part-time and
full-time positions to allow for scheduling flexibility. The cost of
benefits is also a concern - when your personnel budget exceeds a
certain percentage of your overall budget, you become vulnerable to
fluctuations in income (if our sales tax income drops, I might be forced
to lay people off, and that is not something I ever want to have to do).

A third consideration is succession planning. Whenever we have a job
opening, we start by looking at current staff job descriptions and what
hats can be shifted from person to person so that each person's job
gradually becomes a better match for his skills and interests. Then we
advertise for someone with the skill set we are lacking. When I hire I
am always looking for people who have skills beyond what I have asked
for, and particularly in areas I know we are weak, even if those tasks
aren't currently being hired for. I look for management
interest/potential, because a lot of people I interview are not inclined
toward an administrative future.

While the library does pay for some conference and workshop attendance,
we expect that people with a professional degree should take primary
responsibility for their own professional development. I expect the
librarians on staff to do professional reading and to bring ideas and
concerns to the table. I expect that they will contribute to projects as
they are being developed, that they will apply their particular talents
whenever the opportunity arises, and that they will also volunteer to do
some of the grunt work when that's what is needed. I expect that they
will find ways within our organization to continually hone their skills.
I expect a cheerful disposition and exceptional customer service skills.

When we have a position open, it is sometimes an opportunity for a
part-time person to become a full-time person (I should state here that
we currently do not have library assistant positions - we hire part-time
librarians and their job title is librarian - budget concerns may cause
us to to shift from this in the future). If creating a full-time
position is in the best interest of the library, that position is
offered to a staff person who has talents we need, who has demonstrated
initiative and leadership, who has embraced his or her work at the
library, and who has expressed an interest in working full-time. If it
includes management responsibilities, we will usually post the job and
invite current employees to apply.

Some realities from the HR side of libraries:

-   Often libraries can only afford library assistants, and folks with
    library degrees apply for and take those positions. As the HR
    person, if I offer a non-degreed position, and people with degrees
    apply, chances are I will hire a person with a degree.
-   I get a lot of applicants when I post a full-time position and
    relatively few for part-time positions. If you can afford to work
    part-time, the system is to your benefit. If you can afford to hire
    full-time, you get a lot more applicants to choose from.
-   If you are trying to break into the library world and can find a job
    in a small library (they usually pay less, alas), you will get to
    build your resume faster with a greater variety of skills.
-   The library will never be as focused on you as you are.You are in
    the best position to direct your own career. Be proactive. Do things
    that get you noticed, make your interests known, and above all, be
    amazing when you are dealing with library visitors, staff, and
    volunteers (these are your best references).


### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
We have a grow your own program that was also sponsored by the State
Library. Library assistants would be reimbursed for attending library
school. Once they finished their degree, they would be promoted to
Librarian II. They could earn the Librarian I position without the
degree if they had their BA, and II when they get their MLS. It's worked
well for us as we don't often attract librarians wanting to serve in
rural areas and we recognized we had talent to fill the gaps. We've had
two so far with a third on the way.

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
The library I work in is primarily staffed by non-professional staff (10
of 12, all but one part time). Of those, perhaps four of us are
interested in general professional development. Of those four, two of us
(myself included) are interested in professional development for career
reasons with the potential for seeking a library science degree.

In-house, professional development opportunities are limited; training
is typically geared towards need-to-know skills, such as learning how to
use a new database or software or how to work an eReader & show patrons
how to download books to their own devices.

However, both the region-wide consortium my Library belongs to as well
as the state-wide library association offer extensive professional
development opportunities. These range from workshops on basics such as
ILS use, Microsoft Suite programs to weeding workshops, from reader's
advisory and hot picks to managing volunteers. There are also
roundtables for various interest groups, including one specifically for
paraprofessionals. Other roundtables include circulation, cataloging,
directors & assistant directors. These workshops are held across the
state, are often held in multiple regions so folks will have a chance to
attend one nearby, and sometimes are held as webinars.

In addition, the state association has a contract with
[Lynda.com](http://www.lynda.com/), which includes training for a wide
range of topics. Staff don't have unlimited access to Lynda.com; rather,
they can register for a 2 week time period in which they have access to
all on the site. Staff are asked to wait 3 months between sign ups for
Lynda.com to allow others a chance to use it.

All of the above workshops, roundtables & web training is available
across the board to non- and para-professional staff as well as
professional staff. The above workshops are also free to staff provided
that their library is a part of the state association--which is free of
charge to all libraries in the state--and to all kinds of
libraries--public, school, private, medical, etc.

The state association also does advisory by email, phone, or in person.

And somewhat related, since it is fantastic for gaining experience and
getting a foot in the door, the state association also runs a temp
agency specifically for libraries. They place people in short- and
long-term for non- & paraprofessional and professional positions.

### Comments ###

