---
title : Can someone explain the Dewey Decimal System in layman's terms?
---
Can someone explain the Dewey Decimal System in layman's terms?
=====================
Whoever asks this, regardless of context, is or has been a patron of a
library that used DDC, so phrase the answer like you're addressing a
patron.

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: This was the top question during the definition phase of this proposal.
(25 votes)
* jonsca: Great that you've brought in some of the example questions. This one may
be a bit too broad, I fear. It might be better to address a specific
facet of it.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Of the substantially outstanding questions, I brought in 2, found 1
already existing in some form, and decided 5 looked off-topic and/or
non-constructive and asked about them in Meta. (Please head over there
and discuss!)
* jonsca: Will do, I hadn't seen your Meta post!


Answer by dsalo
----------------
(Aigh. I can try? Supposedly I teach this stuff...)

Classification systems like DDC exist to accomplish two major goals:

-   placing books (or other physical items) near others similar to them,
    in an overarching organization scheme
-   putting a unique label (known as a "call number") on each book in a
    library so that given that label, a would-be reader can find exactly
    that book

DDC classifies books by their main subject -- what each book is about.
To make it possible to classify any book that might come into the
library, a classification system has to encompass as much of the total
universe of knowledge as libraries generally hold -- which is a large
universe!

DDC was designed by 19th-century American Melville Dewey, and is used to
organize the nonfiction shelves in most American public libraries. (You
may have noticed that much fiction in American libraries doesn't use
DDC; instead, it's often arranged by genre -- romance, mystery,
speculative fiction -- and author.) If you think the way Dewey split up
the knowledge universe:

-   000 – Computer science, information and general works
-   100 – Philosophy and psychology
-   200 – Religion
-   300 – Social sciences
-   400 – Language
-   500 – Science (including mathematics)
-   600 – Technology and applied science
-   700 – Arts and recreation
-   800 – Literature
-   900 – History and geography

is a trifle odd, you're not alone! It's a reflec-century
educated-gentleman sensibilities (well, except for "computer science,"
which is obviously a later addition), and things have changed a good bit
since then.

When a new book comes into the library, a librarian whose specialty is
cataloging skims the book to determine what it is about, then looks that
subject up in a Dewey "schedule" (actually some rather thick books or a
complex website) to work out what its Dewey call number should be. Once
labeled with that number, the book goes to a shelf near neighbors on the
same or a similar subject. Catalogers in different libraries may make
different decisions about where to classify a book, depending on their
sense of where the book best fits with the local library's collection.

The trademarks and other intellectual property associated with DDC
[belong to OCLC,
Inc.](http://www.oclc.org/dewey/about/licensing/default.htm), which
publishes revised Dewey schedules.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: That's a great long answer, and I'll definitely up-vote you for it. We
might want a shorter one, too, if this question's answers are to serve
as a long-term reference point for a variety of visitors.
* dsalo: I'll let somebody else do that! I'm all longwinded tonight. \*g\*

Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
Attempt at a shorter answer:

The Dewey Decimal system is like an address system for books. When you
go to visit someone, you look at their town and then address.

Looking at an example of Dewey Decimal 123.45.

1.  In the library you start with the first number of the Dewey Decimal
    number. The "100's" are usually in a section labeled non-fiction:
    philosophy or non fiction: psychology. The books are in numerical
    order.
2.  You use the "23" to find the right part of the aisle. At this point,
    you may be done and right at your book.
3.  If the book specializes in philosophy/psychology, you would use the
    ".45" part to find the book even more specifically.


### Comments ###
* phette23: I've always liked the "street address for books" analogy. We use LCC & I
usually talk about how the first few letters are like the street whereas
the numbers that follow are like the building number.
* Joe: @phette2 : so then Dewey would be more like a phone number for books?
(or a zip code ... with that annoying zip+5 annoyingness when you start
getting into the more obnoxiously long DCC numbers)
* Jeanne Boyarsky: With cell phones, they aren't very locale specific anymore so it may not
work as well with an analogy.

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
When I teach kids to find things in Dewey, I tell them the first part of
the number is the street address, and the part after the dot is the
apartment number. So we wander over to the shelves together until we
find the right street address, then we start looking for the right
apartment number, digit by digit. If there are a lot of books with that
apartment number, then we have to look at the names on the mailbox, on
the line below. Obviously I point out that all the books in the area
have a similar subject, and then I tell them that if they go to the same
address in the adult section, they will find more books on the same
subject! If it is appropriate, I show them.

If I still have their attention, I will ask them if there is another
subject they are interested in, and I will take them to that address. In
the end, it is less about explaining the system than it is about leading
them into discovery of it.

My approach with adults is often similar. I don't try to teach the whole
system, but start with the part they are interested in... "Dewey puts
the travel books in the 900s, where they are grouped by part of the
world - see how Asia is all together, and here is North America..."
People are generally able to extrapolate from this that different
subjects have their numbers. I find most people don't care to learn the
whole range, just their areas of interest.

### Comments ###

Answer by DianeV
----------------
This was told to me a long time ago, and I'm a little hazy on the
details, but a clever mind can modify it and make it their own. Obiously
it needs a little tweaking, and I'd love to see how it could be
clarified!

"In the beginning, people came into being and that led to the 000s or
the Generalities.

Then, people became aware and began to wonder about themselves and
others, and that led to the 100s, Philosophy and Psychology.

As next, their thoughts turned to who made them and where did they come
from, leading to the 200s, Religion.

As they explored the world and people around them, the 300s, the Social
Sciences, became relevant, followed by the 400s, Languages, which
allowed them to communicate with others.

An exploration of the natural world around them, the 500s, Pure
Sciences, came next, then how people were able to shape the world to
their needs, the 600s, Applied Sciences.

As people developed their intelligence and mastered their environment,
they had leisure and time for the 700s or Recreation.

People had stories to tell about their lives and the world of their
imaginations, which led to the 800s, Literature.

Lastly, people reflected on scope of the world around them and wanted to
make a record of their achievements, leading to the 900s, History and
Geography."

Sorry for the lack of lyricism and detail but I wanted to roughly
outline this flowing narrative. Hope it helps!

### Comments ###

