---
title: "How can you get non-library trained people to trust in your weeding?"
layout: default
---
How can you get non-library trained people to trust in your weeding?
=====================
There are two primary contexts in which this might come up:

1.  A public or school librarian has to earn the trust of a public
    official, who may be a bureaucrat or politician but has some power
    over the library.
2.  A patron or patron group wants to know why their favorite titles
    have been removed and not replaced when replacements are available.
    ("Is it no longer good enough for you? &c.)

In either case, accusations of censorship, personal prejudice, or bad
judgement are likely to come up. Please address these concerns.

M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">weeding</li><li class="tag">school-libraries</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: 4th-highest-rated example question during the Definition phase of this
proposal with 21 votes.


Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
Ideas:

-   Statistics. Showing the book wasn't read as frequently as other
    books.
-   Showing an equivalent book was bought or a more recent version.
-   Shelf space - showing more space was needed for newer topics. At
    some point history of the 20th century gets less space. It is still
    important, but less books over time to make room for current events
    books.

I'm curious to read what else people post.

### Comments ###
* jdscott50: I would add the condition of the book. It might still circulate, but if
it looks terrible it could use a replacement.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Although if it was replaced by the same book, it wouldn't be something
to complain about.

Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
In addition to the above, is the material available through other
sources such as Gutenberg, Internet Archive, LibriVox?

No library can collect in every area, so defining these using a well
written Collection Policy or Guideline can assist when answering
questions about collection areas and define the examples of statistics,
condition, relevance, etc.

This type of public document is also a good way of handling accusations
of censorship, prejudice, etc. by committing to and referencing things
like the freedom from censorship policies relevant to your country's
library organisation, eg:
[http://www.alia.org.au/policies/free.access.html](http://www.alia.org.au/policies/free.access.html),
[http://www.ala.org/offices/oif/statementspols/ftrstatement/freedomreadstatement](http://www.ala.org/offices/oif/statementspols/ftrstatement/freedomreadstatement)
As well as international statements like:
[http://archive.ifla.org/faife/policy/iflastat/iflastat.htm](http://archive.ifla.org/faife/policy/iflastat/iflastat.htm)
or
[http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.shtml](http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.shtml)

A collection policy can also be used to demonstrate that the library
knows the rationale behind their purchasing, as well as acknowledge that
our collections are complimented by strengths in other libraries.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Believe it or not, [Awful Library Books](http://awfullibrarybooks.net/)
can be a marvelous tool for making "OMG the library THROWS BOOKS
AWAY!!!!one!" people rethink their stance.

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
I like to put together a display of books I want to weed (normally old,
outdated, or in bad condition) and ask them if they want their kids
using these books. Gets the point across most of the time.

Just a side note, if we weed books because we have doubles but they are
still in good condition we put those out in a "free to take" bin. Some
libraries give them to their friends group for book sales, but the one
at my library doesn't want them.

### Comments ###
* Melissa: As an opposite to this display, I put out a selection of the new books
purchased. Really shows that when we get rid of the worn out, incorrect,
unused materials we have room for new ones!

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Defending your weeding with a solid collection policy is one side of the
coin, but you don't want to end up in a position of defending individual
weeding decisions. You will set a pattern that never ends.

On the other side of the coin is building trust in your professionalism
- show them you know what you are doing:

-   Keep good statistics that show the increase in circulation that
    happens after weeding and the improvements in the average age of the
    collection (it is shocking to realize how "old" your collection is
    when you actually run the numbers).
-   Keep numbers on how long you usually own books before they are
    weeded - if books typically stay on your shelves for 10 years before
    they are weeded (and on average they generally do when you balance
    the new bestseller purchases against those popular children's books
    that never go away), that demonstrates care and good stewardship.
-   Compare your library's collection size and circulation numbers to
    other libraries in the area - either our stats are better than
    theirs because we do such a professional job of weeding, or our
    stats are worse than theirs because we have been hindered in our
    weeding.
-   Know your collection's basic circ numbers well enough to be able to
    discuss them without referring to reports - about how much of your
    collection is in each area and how well does each area circ?
-   Ask your staff to record compliments from the public about how
    current your collection is and how much people love your selections,
    and share these at every opportunity. Share stories about book clubs
    that have adopted your library, how excited certain long-time
    members were to see this or that new book, and how quickly you were
    able to respond the the mayor's daughter's book request.


### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: I think that first line is perhaps the most important point in this
whole Q&A.

Answer by Fisher
----------------
I agree that a solid collection development policy is a good place to
start, but having a weeding policy is also important. Using the [CREW
Method](https://www.tsl.state.tx.us/ld/pubs/crew/index.html), for
example, you have a strong, consistent process in place. The act of
reviewing & weeding feeds naturally into the act of acquisition (see
page 10 of their manual). The weeding is dictated by a number of
relevant factors, many of which folks list above: condition, circulation
stats, relevancy, availability elsewhere (not just ILL but classics that
can be found on Project Gutenberg). Using this method as the basis for
your policy, you have strong arguments for not just weeding, but weeding
with collection management in mind. So while you won't want to get into
the nitty gritty of why each book was weeded, you do have those reasons,
both as a whole and for each individual item.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Nobody wants to get into the position of defending individual decisions,
but having a standard weeding method that can be pointed to certainly
helps if it happens (and hopefully shifts the discussion to explaining
policy and method rather than justifying an individual decision).
* Jane Nearing: In addition to CREW, we incorporated collection 'currency' goals, by
Dewey decades, into our Policy Manual.

Answer by Jeni
----------------
Consider involving some of your teachers in selecting books they think
don't belong in "their" specialty anymore. For example, I asked a
teacher who used a lot of poetry to help weed the poetry and she was
much more brutal than i would have been. Younger teachers especially
understand the need for an attractive up to date collection.

### Comments ###

