---
title: "Would having a self-service kiosk or "vending machine" apparatus be an effective after-hours strategy?"
layout: default
---
Would having a self-service kiosk or "vending machine" apparatus be an effective after-hours strategy?
=====================
Libraries have very convenient hours compared to most banks or municipal
institutions, but they still can't serve a 24 hour society.

Obviously, staffing such hours would be problematic. However, would a
vending machine apparatus to dispense, say, hold books or a self-service
kiosk for printing ILL journal articles or other reference material
(subject to local laws) be a pragmatic move to serve patrons at all
hours?

jonsca

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Based off of [this](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/79/127)
meta discussion.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I've also heard of this being done with a used Redbox machine randomly
stocked with popular titles, but I don't know how well that worked;
someone might try looking into it, though.


Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
I like that idea. It works for video stores - a DVD kiosk for popular
titles. A library one would be more complicated but it could work. I
wonder if something of this sort exists.

For the ILL part/reference material: if it could be made available at a
kiosk for printing, couldn't it be made available online? NYPL provides
a variety of reference resources online with a library card.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Yes, that's a good point about printing. I couldn't think of any other
applications for a (well-secured) self-service computer kiosk, though. I
suppose if a patron didn't have a printer or there were licensing
limitations, printing from home wouldn't work.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Hmm. Not being able to print at home. You could just go to the library.
Oh wait. So I guess the application would be a free/discounting printing
service.
* jonsca: Not if the kiosk required a copy card ;) Again, I'm asking in
generalities here
* jonsca: I do appreciate you airing the concerns, don't get me wrong
* Jeanne Boyarsky: No problem. It wasn't so much a concern as a joke in the comment. (The
question in the actual answer was serious, but you addressed that.)
* jonsca: I wasn't completely sure, hehe.

Answer by eby
----------------
Our library has 24/7 external lockers at two locations which have so far
proven popular. Holds can be requested to be checked out and put in the
lockers. Patrons are then emailed a key code to enter that will open
their specific lockers and have until opening the next day to get it.

Lockers can be requested online for specific items or by phone. Filled
on a request by request basis until all lockers are full. Lockers are
around post office box size so some require multiple lockers.

### Comments ###

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
At the library where I work now, there are "24-hour hold" lockers
accessible from the outside of the building. A patron can request that
an item be placed in one of those lockers, which is assigned a random
PIN code that we give the patron. The item is then checked out to the
patron and placed in the locker, from which the patron can retrieve it
at any time up until the PIN expires (usually 72 hours, I think).

While we don't advertise it, this service sees a small but steady volume
of usage. It is, however, much more work than the standard holds
process. I have seen this service offered at many other libraries in the
area; I presume that the process is substantially similar and sees
enough usage to justify implementing and continuing.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
We looked at adding the lockers to our two existing branches. Two
stand-alone locker units with 13 compartments each was about \$13,800
from the least expensive of two vendors, but this number did not include
shipping or installation, which would have run to as much as \$7000
more. The management timewise for filling and emptying added additional
daily costs. And then there is maintenance when it breaks down (or
purchase of a maintenance contract). In the end, it seemed a
too-expensive service for us to consider, as we anticipated usage of
only a few lockers per night.

Two companies that offer the lockers:

[http://www.americanlocker.com/](http://www.americanlocker.com/)

[http://www.leidproducts.com/](http://www.leidproducts.com/)

I have seen where some libraries have installed these at shopping malls
or other convenient locations instead of building an additional branch
in a farflung location. It requires a courier to refill it, but
otherwise it is unattended.

### Comments ###
* eby: It does help if rolled in to a renovation or build so that the price is
just part of the whole process. That said we did expect low use or
sporadic (holiday, etc) use but it has taken off. Many use it during the
day as almost a drive thru service since the lockers are close to the
drop off/pull off. We haven't advertised it at all other than in pickup
notices and on the online account where you can choose the items. It has
steadily grown in use. I don't have any good statistics on circ changes
but opinions seem high on the convenience.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
We've been using vending machine libraries for a while. The Brodart
Lending Library is now sold through [PIKInc](http://www.pikinc.net/)
(public information kiosk inc.) we have had great success bringing
access to rural areas where they wouldn't have had any access to books
at all. We've also used them in job centers to complement the job
resources with resume writing, interviewing skills, and other job prep
materials. We are currently in the process of adding two more machines
one outside an existing library.

The advantages are the 24/7 access to materials, and the ability to have
300 titles available at any time. I joke that we could take on Redbox if
we wanted to.

The setbacks are that you don't have as wide a selection as you would
have a normal library. You don't have the collection, the computers, the
space, the programs or the onsite librarians that are really key. It
can't replace a library branch, but it can plant the seed to build one.

### Comments ###

Answer by jambina
----------------
we have a LibDispenser for the reserve texts for our management school
(we closed the branch in the building, but wanted to be sure that the
reserve texts were still available to students). we had some issues with
downtime at first (textbooks are larger and thicker than a lot of other
titles, so the machine needed to be calibrated often), but in general
the students are happy not to have to leave the building to get their
reserve texts.

### Comments ###

