---
title: "To what extent are public libraries adopting the YOUMedia model of public libraries as digital media creation spaces?"
layout: default
---
To what extent are public libraries adopting the YOUMedia model of public libraries as digital media creation spaces?
=====================
For a while now, there has been a lot of buzz around the idea of public
libraries becoming hubs for digital media creation, particularly for
young people. To that end the MacArthur foundation helped fund YOUMedia
in [Chicago's Public
Library](http://youmediachicago.org/10-philosophy/pages/56-philosophy)
(I have included some of how they describe themselves and their
philosophy below.) This idea also seems to be a big part of the
Institute for Museum and Library Services strategic plan for the future
as well ([see the IMLS stratigic plan in this
PDF](http://www.imls.gov/assets/1/AssetManager/StrategicPlan2012-16_Brochure.pdf))

> The philosophy behind the creation of the Chicago Public Library's
> YOUmedia was to enable teens to be more than just consumers of digital
> media, but to be creators as well. Through the activities of making
> and doing, YOUmedia addresses two significant challenges facing urban
> public libraries today:
>
> The shortage of authentic, engaging physical and virtual spaces for
> teens in public libraries; and A lack of meaningful opportunities for
> teens to learn digital media skills while also gaining relevant new
> entry points into library resources.

To what extent is this idea taking off? I would be interested to hear of
other examples or references to any other sorts of information that
would suggest this is trending one way or another.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* KatieR: That sounds really cool. Too bad the public library I work at has
absolutely no money to buy e things needed to create digital media Those
grants always end up going to large library systems & not small public
libraries. :(


Answer by jdscott50
----------------
We have a smaller version of that model. We were recently awarded a
state library grant called Teen Vooks. We would build a digital media
lab for teens to consume and create media. It has been a wonderful asset
engaging teens to take an active role in the library expanding their
space, collections, and programming. Teens get access to MacBooks,
tablets and other tools to play with and create. At the end of the grant
cycle we plan to publish, perform, or exhibit their creations. We are
pretty excited about the project. We also are combining this grant with
another grant so the teens can check out Chromebooks to take home. The
teen librarian here has been a whirlwind putting all this together.

### Comments ###

