---
title : SIP log analyzer
---
SIP log analyzer
=====================
Is there a standard log analyzer for SIP (standard interchange
protocol)?

Kevin French

### Comments ###
* Matthew Robinson: @KatieR This is a question about analyzing the logs generated by
self-service circulation machines and/or the ILS that they are connected
to. The SIP2 protocol has no application outside of libraries so I don't
see how it can be off-topic.
* KatieR: The wording of the question changed after I posted my comment.


Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
The question is about the 3M SIP2 protocol (not the internet telephony
SIP), as implemented by every current ILS. It is inherently
library-related:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard\_Interchange\_Protocol](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Interchange_Protocol)

That being said, logging is not part of the specifications. The log
format and verbosity is an artifact of whatever systems you are running
and their given configurations. There can be logging on the terminal
side, the SIP daemon side, occasionally (historically) even in middleman
multiplexers, the ILS transaction logs, etc.

Therefore there is no single analyzer that could be recommended to your
abstract case. You might ask again specifically for your platform or
hardware. The obvious extension of that is that you should probably ask
your vendor or user group community first.

### Comments ###
* Kevin French: Thank you Joe. I have asked our vendor and user group but the latter
hasn't provided much of a response and the former merely implied I get
one. I've just started reading through these logs on our ILS and I was
advised to get an analyzer making me think many existed that would parse
out the information and enable me to manipulate it after. I appreciate
you clarifying the situation for me.
* Matthew Robinson: @KevinFrench Which ILS (and self-service circulation equipment) are you
using?
* Kevin French: Matthew, we're using the latest build of the Polaris ILS.

Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
I am not aware of any logfile analyzer preconfigured for logs containing
sip2 events (level of detail and format probably varying between
vendors), but there are a few candidates, mostly from adapting and
extending logfile analyzers targeting web, ftp, or mail servers.

-   [lire](http://logreport.org/presentations/20021113-xml/slide_4.png)
    from the [LogReport](http://logreport.org/) project is able to
    generate html, pdf, excel ... files through a series of filters.
    There is no predefined input filter for anything sip2 related yet,
    but it's open source, well structured and very flexible when it
    comes to configuring.
-   [w3perl](http://www.w3perl.com/) is an opensource set of logfile
    analyzers targeted at logfiles storing information about network
    connections. It, too, could be used as a starting point to develop
    own filters, and would be able to generate reports as to "At which
    hours are the self-check automats in building x handling the most
    returns".

So if you can adapt one of these largely depends on what you expect from
your analysis - a summary of error conditions weeding all the normal
activities, statistics on actions by automat, or a more condensed
human-readable overview of what's going on between those vendor-supplie
black boxes and your system? For the latter, there's an excellent paper
on syslog analysis by Cisco ["Building Scalable Syslog Management
Solutions"](http://www.cisco.com/en/US/technologies/collateral/tk869/tk769/white_paper_c11-557812.html#wp9000410),
and a different range of tools to start at for automating the analysis.

Whatever route you're going, when I look at the logfile I'm getting from
our system (a different ILS), you'll probably need to parse your logfile
to generate one-event-per-line entries containing the information you
want to extract and chew on.

### Comments ###
* Kevin French: Thank you, your last paragraph sums up my current thinking after a bit
of investigation. I appreciate you sending along the whitepaper and will
try out your recommendations.

