---
title : Is there a way to tell what category a book belongs to?
---
Is there a way to tell what category a book belongs to?
=====================
For a paper, one can tell what category it belongs to, by the keywords
of the paper and the journal/proceeding where it is published, even
though he is totally unfamiliar with the topic of the paper.

I wonder if there are some ways to tell what category a book belongs to?

One cannot look at its content or abstract, not even its title (I put
this restriction, because in reality, even does so, if not familiar with
the topic of the book, it is still hard to tell what category it belongs
to).

The only available information is just any meta information available,
either printed in the first few pages of the book or available on some
websites that provide such information for categorization.

I also hope to be able to reach as fine category as possible/available.

Tim

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Under what context? In a bibliographic record? What call numbers to use?
A little more detail regarding what you mean by "category" would be
helpful.
* Tim: My question comes from the problem I often have. When I am given a book
that is totally unfamiliar to me, I don't know in what areas they belong
to. I don't know what information printed in the book may help me to
classify it. Also even though I search information on the internet, I
don't know if there is website providing categorization?
* Jack Schmidt: It would help to have an example of the sort of book you are talking
about. Most books have been cataloged, including subject cataloging, and
records are available, for instance from worldcat.org or from a national
library. The subject is represented in two ways: the call number and the
subject headings. If you are asking about doing original subject
cataloging, then this is a standard topic in library school. The table
of contents, first paragraph of chapters, and online reviews are
helpful.
* Tim: @JackSchmidt: I often organize my ebooks on my computer, which is where
my questions come from. I don't have an example now. But I did have some
a while ago and probably will again. I believe most of the books I have
seen already have been categorized somewhere I don't know, and I am also
interested in learning cataloging by myself.
* Tim: @KatieR: What do you mean by "call numbers"? Are they ISBN?
* KatieR: No. ISBN = International Standard Book Number. A call number what a
library uses to label a book in order to find it on the shelf. Those
numbers on the spines of library books? Those are call numbers.
* Tim: @KatieR: Are the same numbers or similar numbers assigned to the same
books over different libraries? Or different libraries have very
different ways to label their books?
* KatieR: Any books classified in Dewey will have the same numbers across
libraries using Dewey, same goes with Library of Congress. It just
depends on what classification system that library uses.
* Tim: @KatieR: What classification systems exist nowadays? Any wikipedia
articles?
* KatieR: Just read through the questions on this site, that topic has already
been addressed.


Answer by KatieR
----------------
Before I start, I'm a public librarian.

I refer to the CIP (Cataloging in Publication; on the verso of the title
page) in assisting with determining at least a starting point about how
to classify a book. If I still need help, I'll use WorldCat to find out
what other libraries have done with the book.

Between these two places, and a willingness (and the time) to research
Dewey numbers, I arrive at a call number that I feel the book belongs at
and will circulate under.

### Comments ###
* Tim: Thanks! (1) by CIP (Cataloging in Publication; on the verso of the title
page), do you mean ISBN? How does that help you classify? I searched but
couldn't find what it is. (2) Where and how do you Dewey numbers?
* KatieR: No, ISBN is different from CIP. Do you have a book around you? Look at
the back of the title page, towards the bottom. You'll see something
that looks like this: http://www.fiverainbows.com/images/cipfaq2.jpg &
that is the CIP. It's typically includes suggested call numbers. For
Dewey, often times I just end up googling it. Something like "dewey
759.4". It'll give me a general idea of what that Dewey means -- my
favorite to use is dewey.info. If you want to get really specific, you
could get ahold of a DDC Classification book set.
* Tim: Thanks! If I am correct, not all books provide "subject headings" as
your example, which is the only classification information printed in
the books, if I am correct.
* KatieR: I really am no expert on what is included in CIPs or what books even
have them but I am pretty sure that if a book has a CIP, it will include
subject headings.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Looking up a book [in WorldCat](http://worldcat.org/) will often give
you subject information about it. See, for example, [this introductory
textbook on
cataloging](http://www.worldcat.org/title/cataloging-and-classification-an-introduction/oclc/28148283);
to the right of the page you see its subject headings:

-   Cataloging -- United States.
-   Classification -- Books.
-   Cataloguing

If that's not enough, you can click "View all subjects" for a longer
list (often including subject headings in different languages).

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
For a quick and dirty category, if you don't have access to the
internet, there are three main places that I look to see if the
publisher has made it easy on me. (note, I'm doing this for dealing with
book sales from the Friends of the Library, so it's more like bookstore
categorization, not a fully detailed classification):

1.  Check the back of the book, along the top, to see if there's a BISAC
    subject heading. (more common in non-fiction)
2.  Check the top of the spine, to see if there's a category there (more
    common for novels, particularly (historic/paranormal) romance
    novels)
3.  Check the front matter for the page w/ the title, publisher, etc,
    info, and at the bottom of the page, see if they have the LC subject
    heading in there.

Of course, these have the problem that this is where the *publisher*
wants you to put the book ... so pseudo science may claim to be science,
etc.

If it's an older book (pre-2000?), it's less likely to have any of
these.

And, when in doubt, you just file everything under 'inspirational'
(memoirs, biographies, self-help, christian living, etc.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Jakob
----------------
As Jorge Luis Borges, writer and director of the National Library of
Argentina, wrote in 1952 about classification:

> Notoriamente no hay clasificación del universo que no sea arbitraria y
> conjetural. La razón es muy simple: no sabemos qué cosa es el
> universo.

Nobody knows what category a book belongs to. One would first have to
actually read the book at least onece and read all related books or
better every existing book. You can only select a category of your
choice, based on:

-   How you would categorize the book
-   How other people have categorized it

The first in the end is guessing, but based on your experience. You look
at title, cover, publisher, maybe the table of contents or any "meta
information" quickly available. This judging with limited resources is
what good librarians are required for. Sure you may use *tools to
facilitate decision*, from a desk and references where to look up
information about publishers and authors up to a computed tag cloud
based on frequent words in the book.

The second requires to find these people and their selection. You may
just ask somebody or look up how other librarians have categorized the
book. *Good resources include* Amazon, LibraryThing, and Wikipedia.

So you may clarify whether you are looking for tools to better judge on
your own or for sources of existing categorization.

### Comments ###
* Tim: Thanks! I am looking for both.

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
The theoretical answer to the question is "no"; Patrick Wilson argued
quite convincingly against the existence of a "correct" category. As
Quine showed, there may be no "fact of the matter".
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject\_(documents)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject_(documents))

Though there may be many "correct" categories, there are vastly more
incorrect categories, and it can be dangerous to simply guess without
having access to the "book in hand". If a stub record needs to go in to
the system to stop duplicates from being ordered, it is better to leave
the subject blank, and put a SHOUTY BIG NOTE in the record saying to add
headings when we get this.

If the item is already published, then checking the subjects and
categories assigned by the Library of Congress is a good check. Before
publication, they may rely on publisher supplied CIP information, which
can be rather muddled.

It's also worth looking on worldcat.org and seeing what subjects have
been assigned. There may be several records for a given book; the ones
used by the most libraries are usually better than the ones that are
only used by a few.

The most important rule is: If you don't know, don't just guess based on
the title; if you guess wrong, the book may not be found by the patron
who really needs it.

Every book its reader.

### Comments ###

