---
title : What is the purpose of the 490 and 8xx
---
What is the purpose of the 490 and 8xx
=====================
What is the purpose of the 490 tag if you create an 8xx? Can you just
enter an 8xx and NOT enter a 490?

(Assuming your ILS indexes both)

Maria

### Comments ###


Answer by KatieR
----------------
No. The 490 field is taken directly from the item. The 8xx field is an
authority field, so you use would use established names to describe
those associated with the item (like the personal name or corporate
name). You would get this information from LOC Authorities.

> Use 490 and 8xx fields for series data. Use field 490 for series
> statements transcribed from the item. Use 8xx fields for series added
> entries.

[http://www.oclc.org/americalatina/en/bibformats/es/4xx/default.shtm](http://www.oclc.org/americalatina/en/bibformats/es/4xx/default.shtm)

### Comments ###
* Maria: Thanks!So.... to give a concrete example.... let's say item in hand is a
copy of a Bach Invention no. 8. The 490 would have however it is printed
on the item (which would be a duplication of the 245?!). The 800 would
have the authorized form of Bach's name, let's say Johann Sebastian
Bach, with a subfield for his dates and a subfield probably for the
grouping of "Bach. Inventions." Right? It just seems like the 490 is
redundant in this example, esp if the 245 is the same. ? This is why I'm
not a cataloger! :-)
* KatieR: The 245 is the Title statement while 490 is the series. It's not always
so that the title is the same as the series. "Catching Fire" is the 2nd
book in the "Hunger Games" series, for example. So the 245 for the
Hunger Games book (since the title & series are the same name) would be
245\$aHunger Games/\$cSuzanne Collins. 490\$aHunger Games ;\$vbk. 1.
Yes, it is repetitive but the fields index different things. So if
someone searches by title it shows up or if someone searches by series,
it shows up.

Answer by zemkat
----------------
KatieR is right. An 830 must be justified by a transcribed series
statement elsewhere in the record. This will almost always be a 490, but
can also be weird places like a 533 \$f (Series statement of
reproduction).

In older records, you might also see a 440 which acts as a combined
transcribed series statement and authorized form in one field, but it is
obsolete so I wouldn't use it.

### Comments ###

