---
title: "How to select a patron management system?"
layout: default
---
How to select a patron management system?
=====================
What is the best process to define needs and opportunities related to
selecting a patron management system? By patron management system, I
mean a system that enable patron to opt-in to more active engagement
from both the system, and the library staff. Perhaps some kind of
customer management system (CRM) for libraries.

For example,
[Evergreen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evergreen_%28software%29) does
not appear to have any automated marketing systems to message and track
patron response.

blunders

### Comments ###
* Ben Ostrowsky: Can you give some examples of what you mean by patron management systems
as opposed to general library software packages like Evergreen (assuming
you do mean something else)?
* blunders: @Ben Ostrowsky: Updated the body of the question. If you have an
additional questions, just let me know. Thanks!
* Ben Ostrowsky: Aha -- customer relationship management for libraries? Interesting! I'll
be eager to learn about this from the answers.
* blunders: @Ben Ostrowsky: More like [marketing
automation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing\_automation) than
[customer relationship
management](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer\_relationship\_management).


Answer by stephenfrancoeur
----------------
I hear that NCSU libraries are exploring the use of CRM software. Don't
know where they are with it at the moment.

### Comments ###
* Ben Companjen: This sounds more like a comment (a reference to another source) than an
answer to me. Could you find out how NCSU are doing it?

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
Lebbeous and I wrote code a couple years ago in Evergreen to integrate
with Asterisk telephony (on the same server or a different server).
Users could control whether or not they signed up for various kinds of
phone notices (like a hold notice). Evergreen updated itself based on
the output from the telephony system. Both parts were asynchronous.

This may not be as complete (or foolproof) as you might like, but it is
extensible and open source. I'd be interested to see what else is out
there for email or social media campaigns.

### Comments ###

