---
title: "How does the Rule of Three work?"
layout: default
---
How does the Rule of Three work?
=====================
I have seen so many contradictory explanations of the Rule of Three that
I'm ready to tear out my hair. For each of the faux-authorship cases
below, what goes in a 1xx field, what in a 7xx, and what is discarded
altogether?

-   Dewey and Cheatem
-   Dewey, Cheatem, and Howe
-   Dewey, Cheatem, Howe, and Wye


dsalo

### Comments ###
* Peter Murray: Can you rephrase the headline in the form of a question? I think that
will help with focusing the issue and making it more discoverable later.
* KatieR: I'm almost afraid to post an answer because of how this is worded. It
feels like a test & if I get it wrong, I'll get reprimanded.
* dsalo: And this is different from everywhere else on SE how? ;)
* KatieR: Haha I think it's the "ready to tear my hair out" part that's throwing
me. I'll post my understanding and pray it's right --if anything I'll
learn the correct way!
* KatieR: @dsalo, just to note that it is completely acceptable on SE to answer
your own question! :)
* dsalo: Would if I could! I asked because this confuses the life out of me.


Answer by yo_bj
----------------
In AACR2 for up to three authors, you will see the first author in the
1XX field and the additional authors in the 7XX field. So, the first two
examples you listed will look like this:

​1. 1XX Dewey 7XX Cheatem

​2. 1XX Dewey 7XX Cheatem 7XX Howe

For an item that has more than three authors, the title becomes the main
entry and the first author listed is listed in the 7XX field as an
additional entry. The other authors are neither listed in the 245 field
(replaced with an et al.) or in additional 7XX fields. The last example
you give would then look like this:

​3. 7XX Dewey

For RDA (AFAIK), the first author listed goes in the 1XX field and all
other authors fall into the 7XX fields. The first two example formats
remain unchanged, but the third example would look like this:

1XX Dewey 7XX Cheatem 7XX Howe 7XX Wye

Depending on your viewpoint, RDA will either bring better access due to
the addition of multiple authors beyond the rule of three or a potential
occupational hazard, causing earlier onset of CTS in catalogers who have
to type out the additional authors (yes, I've heard this).

Of course there are exceptions abound. Some catalogers cite in AACR2
that that they can add more than three authors, if necessary
[[1](https://cataids.wordpress.com/2009/05/15/the-rule-of-three/)].
Someone correct me if I'm leading folks astray!

### Comments ###
* yo_bj: I don't have the rule books on me atm, but I can try and get you
corresponding AACR2r and RDA section numbers for prosperity, if needed.
* KatieR: "For an item that has more than three authors, the title becomes the
main entry and the first author listed is listed in the 7XX field as an
additional entry." so there would be no 1xx field? Just the 245 field?
* yo_bj: You are correct. 21.6C2 in AACR2r would apply, assuming that principal
responsibility is not attributed to any of the authors above. This is
mainly an artifact of the card catalog days, but technology nowadays can
handle more access points.
* dsalo: Bizarre. Thank you.

Answer by slmcdanold
----------------
The rule of three is in AACR2 back when cataloging was card based and we
had a very limited amount of space (an index card) to record the
description. You only recorded up to the first three authors, with the
first author being the primary. If you had more than 3 authors, you had
the option of only recording the primary, up to three, or in the case of
no primary, no authors.

The rule of three has persisted because it is written into AACR2. It is
now, however, all that useful anymore since our records are in bytes
rather than typed onto index cards. In RDA the rule of three will be
done away with and you record all the contributors/creators.

Many librarians have already ceased to worry about limiting themselves
to three and record as many as they feel is necessary.

### Comments ###

