---
title: "What's a good policy and training to put in place to deal with aggressive patrons?"
layout: default
---
What's a good policy and training to put in place to deal with aggressive patrons?
=====================
Points to consider:

1.  What should be the initial response?

2.  When should this be escalated to a supervisor?

3.  When should this be escalated to a monitor or library security?

4.  When should this be escalated to a police matter?

5.  When and for what period should a patron be banned (law permitting)?

6.  What staff training goes into this?



M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">patron-management</li><li class="tag">security</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Wording suggested by KatieR in a comment on this:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/80/345


Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
POLICY ONLY (training not addressed) *Our Library's policy is posted
publically. It is part of a general Policy Manual. Our city government
has an appointed Library Board that oversees and works with city and
library administration:*

> CODE OF CONDUCT POLICY
>
> The goal of the Library’s policy is to maintain a safe and healthy
> environment conducive to study, programs, and enjoyable use of the
> Library.
>
> • We expect our customers to attend to personal bgings. The Library is
> not responsible for personal belongings left unattended in the
> building.
>
> • Select areas of the Library are designated quiet areas.
>
> • The Library reserves the right to limit the size and number of items
> brought into the building.
>
> • Drinks with lids are allowed in the Library. Food is allowed in
> designated areas.
>
> The following behaviors are prohibited in the Library:
>
> • Harassing or annoying others through noisy or boisctivities, by
> staring at another person with the intent to annoy that person, by
> following another person about the building or by behaving in a manner
> which reasonably can be expected to disturb other patrons.
>
> • Entering the Library without a shirt or other covering of their
> upper bodies or without shoes or other footwear. Patrons whose bodily
> hygiene is offensive so as to constitute a nuisance to other persons
> and a disruption to the Library environment.
>
> • Loud, contis crying or screaming; running, or throwing objects.
>
> • Leaving children under the age of 10 unattended. Neglecting to
> provide supervision of children.
>
> • Bringing animals, other than service animals, into the building
> without prior approval of Library Administration.
>
> • Soliciting; or distributing materials without prior approval from
> Library Administration.
>
> • Monopolizing/obstructing space, seating, tables or equipment to the
> exclusion of others.
>
> Prolonged or chronic sleeping.
>
> • Defacing or damaging any Library materials, equipment, furniture; or
> interfering with the operation of Library equipment. • Photographing
> staff or patrons without permission.
>
> • Misusing restrooms. Smoking, bathing, hair-washing and doing laundry
> are not acceptable.
>
> • Bringing bicycles, scooters, or shopping carts inside the building.
> Skateboards or skates must be carried if brought into the Library.
>
> • Refusing to h requests by members of the Library staff to abide by
> Library policies may result in revocation of Library privileges,
> expulsion from the Library, or criminal prosecution. Any person banned
> from the Library by action of the staff may request a hearing on the
> propriety of that ban before the Library Board at its next regularly
> scheduled meeting.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Just some advice on answering questions: focus on the question. Much of
the policy you posted does not address aggressive patrons. Highlighting
specific points of the policy that addresses aggressive patrons and
discussing that would make a stronger answer.

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Obviously there are varying levels of aggression, and varying
sensitivities to what might be considered aggression. There are also
patrons who are known to you and others who are not. A lot of personal
judgment comes in to play which makes defining steps rather difficult.

At our library, the first person on the scene attempts to calm the
situation, and whoever is in charge at the time should be called in if
possible to help defuse the matter by inviting the aggressor somewhere
away from the public (but not alone) to talk.

If the patron is not readily calmed, he is asked to leave. If he
refuses, or if he leaves and comes back another time for a repeat
performance, the sheriff is called and a criminal trespass warrant is
issued, which means the person can no longer come to the library. We
have been advised by our local sheriff's department that when we contact
them, we do not need to speak into the phone - we can just dial 911 and
leave the receiver off the hook. We have been assured that they would
rather come for a false alarm than not be called when someone is a
potential danger.

Don't forget to ask staff to fill in an incident report for any serious
behavior issues so that if there is a repeat, you have documentation.

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
Warren Davis Graham has three books out, [Black Belt
Librarian](http://www.worldcat.org/oclc/70151388) (all have similar
titles; that is the first of the books), that discuss setting up
policies and training. He focuses strongly on deescalating situations as
much as possible, using techniques like speaking softly and using
calming body language. He also talks about how to appropriately and
safely confront patrons who are being aggressive or simply breaking the
rules. His policies include using a clipboard to record all incidents in
the library, even minor ones, like asking someone to take their food
outside, both to create precedent and to track issues.

I have also heard of a three strikes & your out policy being useful.
This particular situation was geared towards teens, but I imagine it
would work with all patrons. The first time you violated policy
(disrupting other patrons by talking too loudly, say), you were asked to
stop. Second time, warned that if you did not stop you'd be asked to
leave if it happened again. Third time, you are asked to leave for the
rest of the day. Tomorrow? Blank slate, start over with the three
strikes. For serious offenses, a longer temporary ban were instituted.

If a patron does not leave when asked to (per both the 3 strikes policy
described above and my library's policy), the police are called. If the
situation is not violent, the patron should be warned that the police
will be called if they don't leave. They don't leave, pick up the phone
and call. If the patron is threatening or aggressive, either physically
(whether it's their movements or they are actively being
physical--slamming or throwing things) or verbally, call the police, no
warning necessary.

If at all possible, keep a desk or other furniture between you and the
aggressive patron. Make sure the phone is close at hand. Don't confront
someone who seems aggressive or threatening by yourself--have backup
and/or witnesses.

### Comments ###

Answer by Pam Henley
----------------
This should be addressed frequently at staff meetings. It's also helpful
to have a police officer come to talk to staff about when to call (our
police have said any time we feel any kind of threat - they are ready to
respond, and better trained than library staff, to handle a wide a
variety of situations). It's important to be prepared - think ahead of
how to deal with different possibilities. The Black Belt Librarian books
are a great resource. We also started keeping a record of incidents on a
staff wiki, so everyone would be aware (very helpful for those who are
part-time and might not know of specific patrons or incidents). A few
hours of role-playing can give everyone a good feeling of confidence. We
also use instant messaging among the staff so we can communicate without
being obvious, and that has been very helpful in alerting co-workers
that a situation might be developing, and can be diffused early. We also
had panic buttons installed at all public desks for extra security
although they don't get a lot of use, it's nice to know they are there!

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: We've certainly done some of the above, but I especially like the wiki
suggestion; our known problem patrons are in a binder that can't leave
the back office, but part-time staff who don't have desks back there or
full-time staff who have desks elsewhere simply don't have time to sit
down and read it. A wiki might work better, especially if a link to full
reports can be added to e-mails alerting the staff to major incidents.

Answer by Melissa
----------------
The library where I work is staffed by student workers late evenings and
on Saturdays. There have been few issues of patron misbehavior, but last
spring a student worker was closing the library and a student refused to
leave. She called campus security and let the officer on duty handle it.
I train the student workers that they cannot be part of the solution if
they are part of the problem (get into an altercation) and it's better
to just call campus security. The student workers are trained to take
the cordless phone and lock themselves in the staff bathroom and call
security or police if the student worker feels threatened by a patron's
behavior although it's never been necessary. As a librarian, when I've
dealt with a disruptive patron, it's usually at the desk -- the patron
is upset about a fine, etc. I find that acknowledging the patron's
position and suggesting ways to prevent the issue in the future are most
helpful, but still stand firm on library policy (patron still has to pay
the fine). If the situation escalates, I disengage until the patron has
calmed down enough to talk. I have never had to resort to campus
security using these responses.

### Comments ###

