---
title: "What is a good policy for dealing with parents who leave their children at the library as free daycare / babysitting?"
layout: default
---
What is a good policy for dealing with parents who leave their children at the library as free daycare / babysitting?
=====================
What is an appropriate response to a parent who leaves the child so they
can work elsewhere in the library?

Are there time periods that are "okay" vs. "not okay" (e.g., fifteen
minutes vs. five hours, not time of day)?

When and how should the law get involved?

What if children do not have parents to pick them up at closing time?

**Points to consider:**

-   All of this is going to divide into age ranges where lack of
    parental supervision is appropriate and where it is not appropriate.
    Please be specific if you are aware of specific policies on this.
-   Local law may also play a factor; please note if you are aware that
    (and how) this is the case.


M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">patron-management</li><li class="tag">youth-services</li><li class="tag">security</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
*This is part of our policy manual and is posted where needed. Copies
are also handed out when appropriate. Our city government has an
appointed Library Board which oversees and works with the library
administration:*

> 1.  UNATTENDED CHILDREN AND/OR DISRUPTIVE BEHAVIOR POLICY
>
> The [*\**] Library welcomes youth of all ages. The library, although a
> fun and entertaining place to be, is a busy public facility, and
> public places may present hazards for unsupervised children. The
> safety of children left alone in a library building is a serious
> concern of the library staff. The responsibility for the safety and
> behavior of children in the library rests with the parent/caregiver
> and not with the library personnel. Library employees cannot be
> responsible for children who are unattended or demonstrating
> inappropriate behavior.
>
> Parents are responsible for the conduct of minor children (under 16
> years of age) in the library or on library grounds, regardless of
> whether they are with their children or not.
>
> No child age ten (10) or younger may be left unattended in any area of
> the library. Children up to age 10 years of age and younger must be
> supervised by a caregiver at least 12 years old who is able to attend
> to the child’s safety and ensure appropriate behavior. A child up to
> age 10 or younger who is attending a library program need not be
> accompanied in that program by a parent/caretaker, unless otherwise
> indicated.
>
> \>Children up to age 6 must have a parent/caregiver in the immediate
> vicinity of and in visual contact with the child.
>
> Children of any age who require special supervision shall be
> accompanied by a parent/caregiver at all times.
>
> The use of the children’s area is for children and teens through 17
> years of age. For the safety of all children, adults (18 and over) who
> are not accompanied by a child, are to use the children’s area only
> for the purpose of retrieving materials for check outto make
> arrangements to pull materials for research to be used in other areas
> of the library.
>
> The use of the teen area is for teens in 6th-12th grades only. For the
> safety of teens, adults older than this or children younger than this
> are not allowed in the room unless retrieving materials for checkout.
> Parents wanting to use the internet with their teens are asked to use
> the computers in either the children’s area or at [the computer lab
> area.]

### Comments ###
* Mary Jo Finch: Our policy is very similar. Children 6 and under must have an adult
caregiver in the room, up to 8 years must have a caregiver in the
library (we are relatively small). If we find an unattended child, we
attempt to contact the parents. If we cannot, or if it is closing, we
are to call the sheriff (has never happened). If a child is disruptive,
we will also call the parents. Older children may be asked to leave the
library.
* M. Alan Thomas II: And you have nothing you would change about this policy if you could?

Answer by Debrarian
----------------
[Our policy](http://multcolib.org/about/pol-children.html), which is
posted on our website (and otherwise available), focuses more on
behavior than on age guidelines, although we do specify that no child
under six may be alone in the library. Focusing on behavior allows staff
flexibility in assessing and responding to situations involving youth of
any age. The policy is:

[The library] welcomes children. Library staff members are trained to
help children with library materials and services. We want to provide a
safe and appropriate environment for all library users. However, each of
our libraries is a public building. The library does not have facilities
or staffing to provide childcare and childcare is not the library's
role.

Parents and caregivers are responsible for the safety, comfort and
behavior of their children while in the library. Please make sure your
child comes to the library with a responsible person. Library staff
members will take the actions outlined below in these or similar
situations:

    A child is alone and frightened or crying in the library
    A child is alone and doing something dangerous, or another person in the library seems to be a danger to the child
    A child is alone and is not following library rules
    No caregiver comes to pick a child up at closing time
    Any child under the age of six is alone in the library. 

Library staff members will evaluate the situation and try to contact the
child's parent or guardian. If staff cannot reach the parent or
guardian, they will place the child in the care of the appropriate local
law enforcement agency.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: And you have nothing you would change about this policy if you could?
* Debrarian: I have found that it works really well. As I mentioned, focusing on the
behavior rather than age guidelines lets us tailor our responses to a
variety of situations. For example, we might have an older child left
alone who is upset or isn't following rules. We don't get stuck on
technicalities in conversation with the parent (eg. them saying, "Well,
your rules say a 13 year old can be left alone here so I don't see the
problem"); instead, we can explain how the behavior or situation isn't
working, and back it up with policy.
* Melissa: Similar policy works at the library where I work. It's the behavior more
than the age that is at issue. We could always supply unaccompanied
misbehaving children with a new puppy to take home ...

