---
title: "What are important IT skills/tools for systems/tech librarians?"
layout: default
---
What are important IT skills/tools for systems/tech librarians?
=====================
What kinds of technical skills are most frequently used in the IT side
of librarianship, such as for a systems librarian? For example, what
programming languages, development tools, or online services are most
frequently used?

Edit: More specifically, what is most often used in academic libraries?
I'm asking as someone that is interested in pursuing librarianship with
a specialty in systems/IT.

punkerplus

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">information-technology</li><li class="tag">profession</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Um. All of them? I'm not sure this is answerable as is. The breadth of
technology used in libraries is no less broad than any other industry!
* Ashley Nunn: I think this is largely unanswerable - there are so many things to
discuss, even narrowed down to academic libraries. This seems like an
incredibly broad question, as there are many aspects of an academic
library that use a variety of IT systems and tools.


Answer by Kevin French
----------------
It’s difficult to say without knowing the size and type of library
environment (public, academic, special etc…) In smaller organizations
you will likely care for anything that plugs into a wall and in larger
organizations you may be so specialized as to focus exclusively on one
part of the ILS database. Also, it matters a great deal if you are
expected to be something like a Reference (or other specialty)/Systems
Librarian.

I have found that the basic information covered in the CompTIA A+ and
Nek + exams have served me well in a wide range of environments.
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompTIA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompTIA)

Further, a thorough knowledge of database architecture and the various
ways database content can be rendered on the web is a must. I’ve found
the classes I took on SQL, HTML, CSS and XML very useful over the years.

Lately it seems every organization I deal with is working with a CMS
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web\_Content\_Management\_System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Content_Managent_System)
(here I mean content management system though academic environments will
expect you to also know course management systems). You won’t be able to
predict what kind of CMS a particular organization will have but
learning all you can about LAMP
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP\_%28software\_bundle%29](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_%28software_bundle%29)
will help and inform a lot of the type of work you will do likeetting
content from the ILS to the OPAC.

Any programming language you learn will be useful. For the most part,
I’ve been able to convert a given task to my favorite programming
language.

### Comments ###
* Gem: I agree, every library's IT department is a little different, with
different needs, from everyone else. It's not so much specific skills
you need as an understanding of the fundamental concepts.

Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I think understanding how the Web works, and how to put together Web
applications is the most important thing for a "tech" librarian to
understand. There are lots of tool and framework options out there, but
a deep understanding of how they are all similar is worth a great deal.
I think this because, well, the Web is the way things are moving, and
might just catch on some day...

### Comments ###

Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
Well, as someone who is currently working on writing a job description
for an IT position in a library, here's what I'm including as must
haves:

-   Web programming - demonstrable skill with a web-focused programming
    language (PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby, etc)
-   Database skills - the ability to design, build, and use a SQL
    database, and understand and manipulate existing databases
-   Understanding APIs - being able to use the above to interact with
    APIs over the web in order to synthesize data from differing sources
-   Understanding how library systems interact - ILLiad, our Catalog,
    the link resolver, our knowledge base, the website...grokking how
    the puzzle goes together is huge


### Comments ###

Answer by ksclarke
----------------
I think knowledge of (and experience with) specific technologies is
good, but what is better is an understanding of basic principles behind
library (and Web) IT; what's also important is to have a willingness and
desire to be a lifelong learner. Just thinking about my last four jobs,
I've developed an in-house XML-driven digital collections site, worked
with CONTENTdm (an out-of-the-box digital collections system), worked on
a scientific data repository using DSpace (a Java-based repository
system), and worked with Omeka (a PHP-based digital collections system).

Some libraries are big into Ruby/RoR and others are big PHP, Java, or
Python shops. I think being able to adapt to changing environments and
evaluate a variety of different technologies is the skill to develop.
The engagement is important too. If you're just starting out (even
before school), get involved (in any way) in some of the open source
library projects out there... or pursue something you're interested in
(start hacking it together and learn a language, any language, as you
go). The code4lib community, though rowdy, is also good place to learn
about what's going on with many of the people who will be your
colleagues.

### Comments ###
* ksclarke: ...and this is all from the perspective of someone working in an
academic library...

Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
Do these three things, and you'll have the foundation to understand most
of the software around you:

1.  Learn enough HTML and CSS to make a static homepage for yourself,
    and a portfolio of links to some coursework. This teaches you web
    basics *and* helps your future job search.
2.  Take an intro computer science course, or start working through the
    [python tutorial](http://docs.python.org/tutorial/), to get a feel
    for programming. You'll learn a lot about coding and develop some
    immediately useful skills at the same time.
3.  With some coding and some markup (HTML) under your belt, look into
    the documentation for whichever CMS your local library/university
    has. You will run headfirst into concepts from databases and SQL,
    which is a perfect time to find a MySQL tutorial or an intro
    databases class.

After that, you'll understand the applications in front of you on a new
level. If you can slowly learn how that set works, you can quickly learn
the new stuff at your next school/library.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
As a technology instructor in library school, I feel it incumbent upon
me to note that if you're starting from more or less zero, you are
highly unlikely to be able to acquire sufficient skills for many
straight-up systems-librarian gigs in the scant two years (assuming
full-time attendance) of courses you'll take.

This doesn't mean you should give up your ambitions! It does mean that
you'll probably want to supplement your library-school education with a
few programming courses on the side; I generally recommend the local
community college. You may be able to crosslist a straight-up
programming course or two from comp sci, but I'm not always sold on how
well-taught or practical such courses are.

Alternately, if you're interested in systems administration, a
certification or two in Linux and/or database administration would be a
fine idea.

That said, I caution HEAVILY against the laundry-list approach to skills
development that your question hints at. Picking up a disconnected
laundry-list of half-learned skills might get you your first job, but it
won't help you deal with what comes at you that's unfamiliar (and
something always will!), and it won't help you with the constant skills
acquisition that all technologists do.

Try doing (or helping with) projects, or apprenticing yourself to
someone who does work you're interested in, instead of focusing so hard
on that laundry-list. Projects and apprenticeships are how you learn by
osmosis, and how you build a network of people you can call on for help
when you need it.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
So, to weigh in on this from a completely different perspective, you
only really need a few skills:

1.  Writing good documentation (to save you from 6 months down the road
    remembering why the hell you did something, or how to re-install the
    software without it taking another week)
2.  Good inter-personal skills (to develop a local network of people you
    can ask for questions, and find someone in your organization as a
    mentor)
3.  Decent [internet research](http://xkcd.com/627/) skills


### Comments ###

Answer by ND Geek
----------------
Things all IT workers should know, regardless of work environment or
position:

-   logic
-   patience
-   friendliness
-   a willingness to learn
-   how computers work on a high level (for example, there's a video
    card...without either a physical card or an integrated video card,
    you have nowhere to plug in your monitor. The video chip requires
    your operating system to have a compatible software driver. If
    you're having some display/video/monitor issue, the monitor, the
    cable, the video card, and the operating system/drivers are your
    initial primary suspects, after you've determined the machine and
    monitor are both plugged in and turned on)
-   basic troubleshooting techniques (is it on? is it plugged in? is
    there an error message? can I find similar symptoms using Google?
    see above example of how video works on a very basic level for
    something you might troubleshoot)

Things you may need to know, depending on a library's needs:

-   system administration
-   web design
-   web development
-   scripting
-   \*nix (primarily Linux in my experience) command line navigation
-   SQL
-   database administration
-   software development
-   graphic design

Most systems departments at larger institutions have multiple people
handling subsets of these things (they'll have a database person, a web
person, etc), and smaller institutions that I'm personally aware of tend
to outsource large chunks of them, so the systems people can focus on
what's most important to their institutions, so you probably don't need
to be a complete jack of all trades.

Specific technologies come and go. If you want to be involved with
software development, you should take some introductory computer science
courses that really focus on the hows and whys, rather than "if you
write this line of code, it will do this thing". Knowing more generic
things like object-oriented programming are more important than knowing
Java, for example. If you want to be involved with system
administration, learn how to work in a unix-like environment. Install a
"hard" linux distribution like Gentoo on your computer (or if you have
one, a spare), where you're pretty much forced to learn how to
manipulate the system without a GUI. Most of your server access is going
to be via command line, and that's generally the best way I've found for
forcing yourself to learn it.

Really, though, being willing and able to think, deduce logically, work
through a process, and learn is much more important than the technology.

### Comments ###

