---
title : Chat or SMS applications in libraries
---
Chat or SMS applications in libraries
=====================
What kind of benefits and issues do you have experienced with your users
with the chat and/or SMS application at the information desk in your
library?

Would you recommend introducing it?

Regula Cosandey

### Comments ###


Answer by alxp
----------------
At my old institution has a chat box on ever page of their website and
catalogue, using [libraryh3lp.com](http://libraryh3lp.com)'s chat
client. It's right below the library's open hours, which helps draw
attention to it right away.

The reference librarians had two types of shifts, regular reference and
VRef where they manned the chat bot. The software let them use Adium or
other desktop clients so they didn't have to stay logged in to some web
site to answer questions. It let them get work done such as cataloguing
while being available for questions.

The chat client lets users send files to the operator and have a
transcript of the chat sent to them via e-mail. I don't know if it
increased the reach of the library overall or if it just let people ask
questions at home who would have come into the library otherwise, but we
were happy that it provided another avenue of access for patrons.

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
This past year we contemplated using the service.

We first started with Meebo, but decided that we couldn't have multiple
users on the same account. Then we tried [Pidgin](http://www.pidgin.im/)
and that worked better for libraries using multiple accounts.

We incorporated the chat reference on the site, but didn't get very much
traffic. It might be that we are too rural of an area to make the
service with it? I'm not sure, but it was easy to do and to monitor. It
is also an easy way to have multiple libraries working together.

There is a good set of guidelines on the RUSA site:
[http://www.ala.org/rusa/resources/guidelines/virtrefguidelines](http://www.ala.org/rusa/resources/guidelines/virtrefguidelines)

and there is a list of all the chat clients a library could use here:
[http://www.libsuccess.org/index.php?title=Online\_Reference](http://www.libsuccess.org/index.php?title=Online_Reference)

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: It's good you didn't stick with Meebo, considering the service is
shutting down, as far as I am aware...
* jdscott50: Apparently a very prescient plan :) thanks for adding that.

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
My library used to participate in the OCLC's QuestionPoint service,
fielding chat reference questions from around the country (and the UK)
during our assigned hours. Each of us was assigned for one-hour shifts,
and we did not have any additional desk duties at that time. We found
that most questions were:

1.  School groups assigned to try the service but not taking the
    assignment seriously.
2.  People playing pranks.
3.  People with real questions about items on their cards or holds, for
    which we could only direct them to their local library, defeating
    the purpose of chat reference.

The rest of the time, we had few questions at all, and very few of those
were questions that required our knowledge base and materials. The
software was buggy and there were times when we were engaged in
productive questions but unable to complete the interaction. We ended
our participation in the service, and in a statewide facsimile, well
over a year ago.

However, I do think there is a place for chat reference on a local level
(perhaps region-wide?), as well as for text-based reference services,
given that more and more patrons come to us with book titles and
information on their phones.

### Comments ###

Answer by aarontay
----------------
We have a chat reference system using libraryh3lp. Instead of playing
email tag chat allows us to quickly clarify what the user is asking and
answer instantly.

The system allows you to transfer chats so occasionally I will use the
internal IM system to check if the specialist wants to answer and if so
I transfer it to him.

Responses has being excellent with users praising the service during the
transaction, some even wrote in to praise the system when we were in
beta.

Off peak we get about 200 chats a month during office hours 8-5 peak
periods 600 chats. The key is we positioned the embedded chat boxes at
strategic parts of the website from FAQ to catalogue and eventually the
front page of the home page itself.

We intending to put it at databases , wallpapers of pcs I campus etc

### Comments ###

Answer by Jennifer Arnott
----------------
We have a chat reference service (Meebo, and like a lot of other people,
we're exploring other options right now).

We staff ours during the school year approximately 9am to 9pm with a
break in the late afternoon (not over the summer, though there are some
summer classes, not over vacation breaks, not on weekends.) It's
generally staffed by whoever is on the reference desk. (the late
afternoon break is because reference is often handled by our Access
Services desk at that point, and making sure they don't miss chats is
one thing too many - even with a beep for a new chat, it's possible to
miss it.)

We don't get a huge response (I don't have our stats handy, but I think
it's under a handful a week), but the people who do use it are very
grateful for it. Sometimes we get full-blown reference questions,
sometimes a "Hey, how late is the library open?" or "If I came down now,
could someone help me with X?"

### Comments ###
* wdenton: Very much the same at my library. Not a lot of use, but the people who
use it are grateful. It's a good service and even if not used a lot it's
the sort of thing that can expand.

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Since the discontinuation of meebo, the small academic library where I
work has chosen not to offer chat services any longer -- patrons prefer
texting (which we offer) anyway.

### Comments ###

