---
title: "Is it possible to search librarian profiles in LibGuides and embed matches on other pages?"
layout: default
---
Is it possible to search librarian profiles in LibGuides and embed matches on other pages?
=====================
[My LibGuides
profile](http://researchguides.library.yorku.ca/profile.php?uid=31463 "My LibGuides profile")
has some information about me and I would like to be able to show it on
other web pages outside LibGuides, such as in Moodle or a student
portal. That's possible using the LibGuides API if I want to specify my
profile directly by saying "insert wdenton's profile here." But what I
would like to do is search all of my library's profiles for "s:SC/MATH",
find the one that matches (mine), and embed the box elsewhere.

s:SC/MATH is the code we use to say that a librarian has subject
responsibilities for the science faculty's mathematics program. We use
these tags in various places to associate guides with eresources and
librarians, but there's no programmatic way that I can see to say
somewhere "this resource is tagged with subject X and here is the
contact information for the librarian who handles that subject, found by
automatically pulling it in from LibGuides through a search for X."

Has anyone done this?

wdenton

### Comments ###


Answer by Sean Hannan
----------------
No, it's not currently possible. The LibGuides API does not allow you to
filter responses by any kind of string for any call. In order to get a
profile from LibGuides, you need to feed it a user ID (an internal
number).

If you were ambitious, you could create a middleware app to handle it.
Use the API to get a list of all of those users. Scrape the profile
contents from all of those users and index it in a datastore of some
sort. Create your own API on top of that index that will give you a list
of user IDs based on a search string. Feed those user IDs back into the
LibGuides API to get the profiles.

That is a slow and incredibly roundabout way of getting what you are
after. You might have more luck asking Springshare for this feature as
they are quite responsive when it comes to feature requests (in my
experience).

### Comments ###

Answer by wdenton
----------------
As Sean noted, it's not possible right now, but I filed the request with
LibGuides (through Twitter, actually) and they've added it to their
list.

Following his idea of middleware in the meantime, I wrote a couple of
Ruby scripts that generate an RSS feed of librarians matching given
subjects and the code is available here:

[https://github.com/wdenton/my-libguides-librarians](https://github.com/wdenton/my-libguides-librarians)

It's customized for York University Libraries but could be customized
fairly easily. Note that it generates a list of relevant librarians (or
more generically reference desks, if no librarian exists or wants to be
listed publicly) but doesn't include the actual profile box. That's easy
to find when you know the librarian's ID, but takes up a lot of space on
a web page, especially when there might be more than one, so we're just
using links by name.

### Comments ###

