---
title: "What changes have academic libraries made in response to the ARL's 'Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for Academic and Research Libraries'?"
layout: default
---
What changes have academic libraries made in response to the ARL's 'Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for Academic and Research Libraries'?
=====================
ARL recently published the "[Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for
Academic and Research
Libraries](http://www.arl.org/pp/ppcopyright/codefairuse/index.shtml)"
which they describe as:

> a clear and easy-to-use statement of fair and reasonable approaches to
> fair use developed by and for librarians who support academic inquiry
> and higher education.

I am curious to know if any university libraries have changed their
policies, or are in the process of changing their policies for
preserving and providing access to collections based on the fair use
arguments in the best practices code.

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">academic-libraries</li><li class="tag">intellectual-property</li><li class="tag">policies</li><li class="tag">fair-use</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* JakeParis: Can you restate this in a way which would produce a more concrete
answer? As it currently reads, it's little open-ended.
* David Rothman: Perhaps something like: "Have your academic library's policies changed
in response to the ARL's 'Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for
Academic and Research Libraries'?"
* Trevor Owens: Sounds good, I changed the name of the question, feel free to edit it
further if there are more things to tweak.
* Ashley Nunn: What sort of problem are you asking about here? Do you want to know what
sort of changes people are making? Because as it stands, I could just
post "Yes, we are making changes at Library x" or "no we are not making
changes at library x" and both would be a concrete answer to what you
are asking.


Answer by dsalo
----------------
I think you may be... somewhat overestimating the typical rate of change
in academic libraries. ;) I suspect that somewhat under 50% of
academic-library administrators in libraries with digitization programs
(itself a percentage far less than 100% of academic libraries) are even
*aware* of the Code at this point.

My sense is that the Code will not materially impact digitization
programs' decisionmaking processes. There's always more to digitize than
any library can slog through; there's always more *already in the public
domain* than any library can slog through. Given that, why risk it, Code
or no Code?

Digitization programs that already rely on fair use -- and quite a few
do -- may feel better about their decisions post-Code, but again, the
Code's impact will not be great.

I could be wrong about this. What I am quite sure of is that measuring
the Code's impact is premature, and will always be difficult -- perhaps
in 5-10 years we can take a snapshot of digitized materials and estimate
percentages still under copyright, yet available?

### Comments ###

Answer by seawash49
----------------
We had it on our list of summer "to do" projects, but will need to
review it in light of the recent decision in the Georgia case. The work
on ARL publication was all done before the decision came down.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: ARL just posted FAQ updates acknowledging the Georgia State case.
Announcement at
http://policynotes.arl.org/post/24061943604/what-does-the-gsu-decision-mean-for-the
; FAQs themselves at
http://www.arl.org/pp/ppcopyright/codefairuse/faq-libs.shtml .

Answer by kfortney
----------------
We've turned one of the principles into a fillable form that's a
replacement for the standard "fair use checklist" for situations where
it applies. It's not cleared by campus counsel yet, but basically it has
a short introduction, gives the URL to the Code, and then has boxes
where staff can check they're complying with all the Limitations, and
indicate which optional Enhancements apply.

Folks in Special Collections prefer it head and shoulders over the
standard Columbia et al checklist because it's much shorter, skips the
things that are the same all the time, and gets right to the relevant
issues. Next I want to do one for the third principle, about digitizing
to preserve at-risk items.

### Comments ###

