---
title : What is the difference between a ERMS and a Knowledge Base?
---
What is the difference between a ERMS and a Knowledge Base?
=====================
What's the difference between a ERMS and a Knowledge base?

III has a ERMS called ERM. Is that also acting as Knowledgebase for the
link resolver?

Or is erms here to mean the ability to add licenses, track expiry dates
etc etc?? Similarly I am of the impression A-Z lists are populated from
erm/knowledgebase. eg serialssolutions 360core feeds straight to their
EJ portal. Basically i am confused abt difference between erms and
knowledgebase.

aarontay

### Comments ###
* dsalo: By ERMS, you mean "electronic resource management system," is that
correct?
* aarontay: yes electronic resource management system.


Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
A Knowledge Base is a system for storing information in a computer
system in such a way that the information can be reasoned with
automatically. A canonical example of a knowledge base might be
[Cyc](http://www.opencyc.org). A Knowledge Base is usually coupled with
one or more types of inferencing engine, which may use deduction,
induction, inference to the best explanation, or other types of
reasoning to derive answers to questions.

For example, if a KB system knows that most birds can fly, that penguins
are a kind of bird, that penguins can't fly, that Tweety is a penguin,
that yesterday Tweety was sealed in a room where there is no way in, and
the only way out is by flying, that Tweety is alive and outside the
room, and that there are mechanical tools can be used by living things
to fly, the system might *hypothesize* the existence of penguin-operated
flying machines.

A Knowledge Management System is a storage system designed to hold
documents so that they can be found by humans. Good Knowledge Management
Systems support taxonomies, thesauri, and other Knowledge Organization
Systems. They should support full text search, as well as manual and
automated metadata management.

There are two possible expansions of ERMS - Electronic Record Management
System, or Electronic Resource Management System.

An Electronic Record Management System is similar to a Knowledge
Management System, but may have specific features designed to support
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

An Electronic Resource Management System is typically a system designed
to direct catalog users to online versions of resources that the library
owns. Sometimes this is at the level of an individual article.
Occasionally these systems work better than using
scholar.google.com.libproxy.lib.foo-state.edu .

### Comments ###

Answer by Jaclyn
----------------
For ease of understanding, let's simplify this a lot. Let's say you
subscribe to an aggregator database (something huge like Onefile or
Academic Search Complete). That database has a very large number of full
text articles & other records, and keeping track of what's currently
contained within it is time consuming and complicated. An ERMS would
typically contain information about your sub to that database, such as
license, acquisition/order record, vendor info, how to get usage stats
(even the stats themselves, depending on the system), admin info, etc
etc etc. A knowledge base would have info about what the database itself
contained, and possibly how to get to it. This way *you* don't have to
keep track of what's in it - the kb vendor does that for you. You would
likely have a way of marking what your library has access to (databases,
individual journals), and the kb might be linked to the ERMS, to the
link resolver, to the A-Z list, etc.

### Comments ###

Answer by Marc Fresko
----------------
As one of the answers points out, ERMS can mean several things. I think
it should be clear that in this context it can only refer to 'Electronic
Records Management System' (note, 'Records' not 'Record').

Assuming this, the answer is simple.

An ERMS organises information for the purposes of managing it (managing
its security, its retention, its ownership and so on). A Knowledge Base
organises information with a focus on the retrieval of information.

But the real question is: can you have one without the other - or
rather, should you? No. Clearly an ERMS that does not support retrieval
is useless; and a Knowledge Base that does not manage security etc. is a
liability. So basically I conclude the question is ill-founded.

### Comments ###
* aarontay: Thanks. Yes exactly. But it seems the vendors are selling them
separately. You can own for example Serialsolutions; 360core which
allows you to specify which packages you have which will impact the
Discovery System Summon and the link resolver 360link, but you don't
necessarily have 360 resource manager which is used for managing
subscriptions which I resume includes licenses etc.

