---
title : How feasible is a publicly accessible shredder in a library?
---
How feasible is a publicly accessible shredder in a library?
=====================
I've been asked at the reference desk a few times if the library has a
shredder for the public to use. This seems like a good idea to me, so I
was curious if anyone has already developed best-practices for it - such
as:

1.  how heavy-duty of a shredder is necessary?
2.  is it a free-access shredder in a public area, or staff-mediated
    behind a desk or in an office?
3.  is noise or safety a factor?
4.  do patrons need to sign a waiver since they're probably leaving
    personal/private data behind? (shredded, but still, there's always
    potential)
5.  is there a limit on how much patrons can shred? (since it all
    becomes waste the library needs to pay to remove)

This seems like a great service to offer patrons in a modern library,
but just wanted to do some homework before I requested the money to
purchase a shredder.

Brian Herzog

### Comments ###


Answer by jmb98115
----------------
OOP (out of policy). No, we strive to find and provide information, not
destruct it.

4.a, is this your information to destroy? Please list all documents to
be destructed and prove ownership, bearing in mind that we will retain
this documentation for as long as is required by law.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
What our local government does is partner with a records-management
company locally, having them bring their huge shredders to locations
around the city. Perhaps this might be an option for you as well?

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
My library does not offer document shredding. However, I've seen
libraries and companies (such as local banks) offering shredding
days--so not a consistent station, but a periodic, one-day service.
Shredding days are typically contracted to company set up to handle
onsite, one-time shredding, such as [Shred
Docs](http://www.shreddocs.net/) or [Shred
King](http://www.shred-king.com/).

Disclaimer: I have note used either of these companies and cannot vouch
for their services; Shred Docs I found through an [article on a library
shred
day](http://grandhaven.wzzm13.com/news/environment/68413-free-shredding-services-spring-lake-district-library);
Shred King by searching for shredding services in my state.

### Comments ###
* Peter Murray: I have also seen organizations use this as a fundraiser. They have the
shredding truck on-site and will shred any amount for donations.

Answer by Pam Henley
----------------
We get this question frequently as well but not often enough to actually
offer a shredder to the public. The individuals who ask (usually wanting
to get rid of a bank or credit card statement) end up taking their
papers with them. I could see this becoming a problem with people
bringing all their shredding. We have recycling containers in the
library, and a few people took this as an invitation to bring in
collections of cans. Partnering with a local shredding company would
seem to be a great community service.

### Comments ###

Answer by user495
----------------
On two separate occasions, a local business and a religious organization
in my town partnered with commercial document shredding companies to
accept papers in exchange for a donation--either monetary or something
for the food pantry. Seems to me that could work for the library, too.

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
Look at your library's mission statement. Can you justify that a
shredder is helping in furthering it? Or would hosting an annual
shredding fundraiser a mentioned in other questions be better suited to
the goals of your library?

### Comments ###

Answer by self serve
----------------
Having a shredder available for Patrons is a good idea as long as it is
closely supervised. Patrons + Shredders close to Magazines = too much of
a temptation. Adding the staff overseeing this might make this idea not
as feasible.

### Comments ###

