---
title: "Do libraries archive mailing lists as part of their collection?"
layout: default
---
Do libraries archive mailing lists as part of their collection?
=====================
This question follows the recent question on [collecting threads on
internet
forums](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/153/what-attempts-if-any-have-been-made-to-catalogue-and-archive-threads-on-intern)
and [archiving
microblogging](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/581/what-data-format-and-tools-exist-for-archiving-tweets-and-similar-microblogging):
do libraries actually collect, catalogue, and archive mailing lists?
Thre are throusands of mailing list archives and there are surely
more-or-less-established formats, such as
[mbox](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbox). But just linking to an
archive on the web or putting some archive on a server is no serious
collecting and archiving. In practice one probably has to deal with
broken messages, incomplete archives, duplicate messages etc. A library
or archive should also do some basic cataloguing when collecting a
mailing list archive (origin, time-span, topic area etc.). Is collecting
mailing list archives actually practiced by some libraries or archives?

Jakob

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-preservation</li><li class="tag">digital-archiving</li><li class="tag">internet</li><li class="tag">email</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Since mailing lists contain personal information, questions of the
Privacy Act arise. As government agencies, most libraries are restricted
as to what personal information they can collect, how they collect it,
and how they disclose it.

On a practical side, I am stumped in imagining what selection policy a
library might create for this - what would they collect? how would they
collect it? who would be expected to use it? how much time/money would
it take to keep up-to-date and cataloged? and would redaction be
required?

### Comments ###
* trevormunoz: I agree with the OP that mailing list archives seem like valuable
records and I hope we will see an answer indicating that some
institution is collecting this data. I would question what seems to be
the basic assumption behind this answer that electronic mailing list
archives are harder to accomodate or justify in the context of a
selection policy than analog correspondence files. Given the size of
mailing list archives, tools from e-discovery or digital forensics might
be needed to protect personal info but libraries can & should adapt such
tools so as to preserve valuable digital collections

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
In many cases, mailing list archives are public and online. I think
there is a good argument for just rolling these up in web archives. We
already have a fair amount of this kind of content in existing web
archive projects, for example, here is a link to a [W3C email discussion
thread](http://web.archive.org/web/20050110095247/http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/html-future/1998May/thread.html)
preserved in the Internet Archive.

One of the nice things about collecting content in this fashion is that
you get both the content of the messages and various contextual
information about how they were displayed in the original email thread
archive.

As a little bit of a tangent, you might also be interested in the
[various archives of
Usenet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet#Archives) (its not the same
as a mailing list but it shares some characteristics) that exist and
some of the community tensions that arise around archiving what some
people think to be ephemeral discussions.

### Comments ###

