---
title: "What are the advantages to a close-stack system?"
layout: default
---
What are the advantages to a close-stack system?
=====================
The extra labor cost, and inconvenience to the patrons I suspect are
some of the main arguments against the close-stack system, but what
reasons override these concerns in libraries where the close-stack
system is used?

Flimzy

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">untagged</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* NONE: Space for people to work together in stead of book cases


Answer by dsalo
----------------
I would want to see figures on labor cost; I'm not at all sure open
stacks save money. Open stacks have to be repeatedly traversed for books
that have been removed from shelves by patrons and (properly, in most
libraries) not replaced. I suspect without proof that they also need to
be shelfread more often, as patrons "helpfully" reshelve books in the
wrong places.

Other considerations:

-   Security
-   No patron misbehavior in remote stack areas
-   Space and equipment savings in stack areas: no need for carrels,
    reading tables, OPAC terminals, etc.
-   Assuming the architecture supports it, more stacks per square foot
-   More attractive patron spaces (since the same money is spent over a
    smaller square-foot area); the "temple of books" library (e.g. the
    Library of Congress) seems to take most advantage of this
-   Vastly better collection-use tracking possible
-   Higher-touch patron environment; easier to make contact, more common
    to see the "Oh, since I'm here..." sort of question


### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Patrons in the academic library where I work enjoy open stacks --
students don't always know what they are looking for exactly, so
browsing is preferred.

### Comments ###

Answer by calimae
----------------
The library where I work has closed stacks primarily for security (as
dsalo noted), since we "lost" a number of items while we still had open
stacks. But the closed stacks are also helpful because we have a
significant number of older materials that are quite fragile and this
allows us to minimize the amount of handling they endure while still
having them readily available for onsite patron use.

And our stacks are a challenge to navigate (three classification systems
spread across 8 floors and two overflow sections), so having us retrieve
the materials for patrons ends up being a lot easier for them.

### Comments ###

