---
title: "How To Find Old Russian Physics Papers In English?"
layout: default
---
How To Find Old Russian Physics Papers In English?
=====================
Russian science papers may or may not have been translated into english.
If they have been translated, where would they be available?

Are there general methods or resources that can be used to find
translations, either specifically for nuclear physics, physics in
general, Russian translations, or generic to all foreign science
translations?

JoeHobbit

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">databases</li><li class="tag">academic-libraries</li><li class="tag">translation</li><li class="tag">indices</li><li class="tag">bibliographies</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
The chances that it has been translated approach zero, I'm afraid;
vanishingly little journal research is ever translated for
republication. You'll almost certainly do better to find someone in your
field who can read Russian to help you translate it.

### Comments ###

Answer by math_librarian
----------------
You could try a few things in addition to finding someone who can read
Russian:

1.  You could check the "World index of scientific translations" (and
    its subsequent titles) if you have a copy in your library.

2.  If you're willing to type (very slowly) in Russian, you could use
    the virtual keyboard or type phonetically into Google Translate .
    The translations aren't perfect, but they're often good enough so
    that you get the gist of it. For the paper you're referring to, the
    title translates into "A consequence of Dirac's theory of protons
    and electrons."

3.  Ask one of the library lists that has many Physics librarians as
    members. One is PAMnet
    [http://pam.sla.org/manual/pamnet-information/](http://pam.sla.org/manual/pamnet-information/),
    which is the discussion list for members of the
    Physics-Astronomy-Math division of SLA. You don't have to be a
    member of the division to join the list. (Full disclosure: I am a
    member of the SLA-PAM division.)

In answer to the comment below, my colleague cpikas submitted a good
answer to the more general question that is linked to in the comment.

### Comments ###

Answer by SJeffery
----------------
I would add that while the chances of journal research having been
translated is almost nil, the chances are actually decent for russian
literature. My library contains quite a bit of scientific literature
translated from Russian by The Consultants Bureau and other
organizations.

To answer the comment below, there are no great sources for this.
Worldcat has the most complete database, but even that is lacking when
it comes to foreign materials. Our colleciton of rare materials has been
built up over the past \~130 years, so the specific source is rarely
known. For what it is worth, our holdings are in worldcat. After
searching through Worldcat we tend to try combinations of titles,
publishers, and journal names in Google and other search engines.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Could you ask your librarian where they get that material from (e.g.,
vendor names, databases or indices that they know of, anything else that
might be helpful) and edit that information into your post?

Answer by Tatjana Heuser
----------------
I hope I'm not completely out of scope going anecdotal here, for the
episode in question had a highly educative content at least for me:

Recently I have witnessed a colleague from our ILL team trace down an
elusive copy of a scientific Russian magazine. When the first request of
a patron could not be fulfilled, the patron replied with a photo of the
front page of the magazine in question - he had it in his hands some
time ago and was by now desperately searching for an article he
remembered reading to reference it.

With the help of another colleague it was determined that the title was
of Ukrainian origin, and several attempts were made to transcribe the
title from its original Cyrillic script. Eventually one of those
transcriptions took hold on one of the search engines fed, and further
refinements on the title could be made which made it possible to trace
down that the magazine, while in Ukrainian, was actually printed and
published in Toronto. From there it was routine work to find three
copies existing within Europe, and initiate an ILL loan on one of them.

The key to searching in this case was the variety on
transcriptions/romanizations of the Cyrillic title. Even with two
Russian-speaking librarians cooperating on the challenge, it took
several attempts to find the title hidden in the latin-scripted
databases and weed out all the false positives.

So, apart from the excellent tips math\_librarian already mentioned in
his answer, I'd add that you might ask a native experienced with
transcriptions (and their possible variations) to aid in finding
references to the original that could in turn lead you to a possible
translation.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: This is certainly a useful tip for dealing with non-Latin scripts.

