---
title : Are there indices/bibliographies or databases of foreign science papers in English?
---
Are there indices/bibliographies or databases of foreign science papers in English?
=====================
> **Possible Duplicate:**\
>  [How To Find Old Russian Physics Papers In
> English?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/691/how-to-find-old-russian-physics-papers-in-english)

Foreign-language science papers are frequently difficult to come by in
translation. Is there any sort of index/bibliography or database that
could be used to find translations of specific papers, assuming they
exist? This could save a lot of time and expense for researchers when
they would otherwise be duplicating existing translation work.

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* JoeHobbit: http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/691/how-to-find-foreign-science-papers-in-english/695\#695
* M. Alan Thomas II: Based on the closed question at the above link. (Originally posted as an
edit to that question, then reverted and posted here.)
* KatieR: You don't get it. The question had an accepted answer. It is redundant
to repost the question. My comment was meant as a "learn from this and
dont repeat it" situation.
* Joe: @KatieR : if we get enough people with high enough reputation, we should
be able to re-open the earlier question (which, although was quite
specific, was answered in a generic enough way)
* Joe: This question is \*not\* the same as the earlier one -- as there are
many other ways to find foreign translations. It would be better to
re-open the earlier question, and if necessary, strip out the
specificity.
* KatieR: @Joe, the wording of the original question was completely changed by M.
Alan Thomas II, making this a duplicate of the original question. If he
had just left the first question alone and let it be closed and THEN
opened this one, things would have been fine. As a result, these are
duplicate questions.
* Ashley Nunn: @KatieR why do we need the closed one and this one? Why not just edit
the first one to make it less specific, and thus, on-topic?
* Joe: @KatieR : I see this as being a much narrower question than the original
(once you ignore the specific article they're looking for), as it asks
about 'index/bibliography or database'(s), vs. just finding a
translation ... but then it looses the specificity of it being a physics
paper (for which I'd have asked for help on
[PAMNET](https://listserv.nd.edu/cgi-bin/wa?A0=PAMNET))
* KatieR: Now that the original question has been restored, it would be
appropriate for the OP to reword this question to be a bit more broad
and more like the first, but without the specific article request. If I
could take back my vote to close, I would.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I submitted a reversion to OP's original version when I posted this
here; I was trying to avoid duplication, but my edits still need
approval. Since then, OP has re-worded his post to be appropriate and I
think it could be re-opened as-is. If so, I'll delete this as a
duplicate at that time.
* Anna Lear: @M.AlanThomasII The other question has been reopened, so I'm going to
close this one on your behalf.


Answer by cpikas
----------------
There was a World Translation Center and they had an index which used to
be on DIALOG, but might not be any longer.

SLA's PAM division has had several recent discussions see a summary
here:
[http://pam.sla.org/2012/02/pamnet-monitor/](http://pam.sla.org/2012/02/pamnet-monitor/)
. See Dana Roth's column in the PAM Bulletin from August 2010 (p15)
[http://pam.sla.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/aug10.pdf](http://pam.sla.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/aug10.pdf)
for much more detailed information.

Indeed many Russian science articles have been translated and there are
translated journals. Some German articles have been translated, too.
Other languages not so much.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Anyone linked to this answer should also look at the original question
and full answer list at http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/691/345

