---
title: "How can I find MARC records for video games?"
layout: default
---
How can I find MARC records for video games?
=====================
We are starting a circulating video game collection. I am trying to help
our cataloging person by researching how to find records in OCLC or from
a different source.

Ardith

### Comments ###


Answer by Sean Hannan
----------------
While video games [exist in
WorldCat](http://www.worldcat.org/search?q=au%3ANintendo+of+America+Inc.&fq=%28%28%28x0%3Agame-%29OR%28x0%3Agame+x4%3Adigital%29%29%29+%3E+ln%3Aeng&dblist=638&fc=ap%3a_25&qt=show_more_ap%3A&cookie),
they are not a thoroughly cataloged format. In many cases, you might
have to resort to original cataloging. [This
presentation](http://www.slideshare.net/nanettedonohue/cataloging-the-weird-stuff)
very handily lays out which MARC fields you should be using and where on
the item/packaging you can find the relevant information.

### Comments ###

Answer by Nanette
----------------
that's my presentation! I'm glad that people are still using it.

There are a lot more video game records in WorldCat than there were,
say, four years ago. Back then, original cataloging was about 50% of my
video game cataloging workload, now it's about 5%--and it's usually
games from newer systems (like the Nintendo 3DS or Playstation Vita) or
really oddball games that someone purchased or donated. Most of the
major titles have records available on WorldCat.

That said, some of the records are definitely crap and will need
editing. If your cataloger needs to talk to someone about cataloging
video games, my contact info is on the presentation that Sean linked in
his answer, and I'm always willing to discuss all things cataloging.

### Comments ###

