---
title : Are there middle school library management systems with a self check-out feature?
---
Are there middle school library management systems with a self check-out feature?
=====================
I volunteer a few hours weekly a middle school library that doesn't have
a librarian or cataloging system. "Checking out" books consists of
leaving me notes.

The school is looking to get a cataloging/circulation system, and I
think it would be nifty if we had one with a self check-out feature so
students could send me digital notes instead of paper ones. (So that I
don't have to search though a stack of papers to find out if a book has
been checked out!)

Does anything like this exist?

majadirks

### Comments ###


Answer by ObsessiveSSOℲ
----------------
Although this may be confusing to set up without much IT help, you may
consider [SimpleScan SIP2](http://sourceforge.net/projects/simplescan/)
which integrates with SIP2 ILS systems.(A list of some SIP2 ILS systems
is [here](http://www.librarica.com/feature_ilssip.html))

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
Any kind of ILS will eliminate the need for "notes" when it comes to
items being checked out (assuming the kids can get out of the habit of
leaving notes & into checking items out!).

Also, a self check-out feature will need some sort of stand alone kiosk
along with a desktop set-up for you to do direct checking out. These can
be costly so it is something to think about!

When I was in school, I volunteered in the library and did check outs
for other students. This might be an alternative if a self check-out
kiosk is too expensive.

### Comments ###
* majadirks: The problem is that kids are in the habit of checking out books when
there's nobody around to work the ILS system. Luckily we do have an old
computer on a desk that could serve as a self check-out kiosk.
* ObsessiveSSOℲ: Wouldn't the system need to restrict students only the check-out
interface? A friend of mine had seen how without this protection,
somebody entered the admin interface and struck out their fines before.
* KatieR: @obsessivefoss, yes there would need to be some kind of restriction on
the end that students would use. all the more reason for two check out
points -- one for students and one for those in charge. the one for
those in charge to access would have greater admin access than the
student version.
* Arash Milani: That would have been great if there was a software that could possibly
scan the book barcode and the id card of the students (barcode on it)
and do this automatically. but don't know if there is such software with
a simple \`User Interface\` out there

Answer by Jeni
----------------
If it doesn't have a cataloging system then it probably still has cards
and pockets in the books. Students can sign the circulation cards and
leave them in a Box. They could put date due cards in the pockets.

### Comments ###

