---
title: "What are the most commonly used cataloging systems in middle school libraries?"
layout: default
---
What are the most commonly used cataloging systems in middle school libraries?
=====================
I work in a decent sized middle school library (\~10,000 books, I would
guesstimate) that's looking for a cataloging system. I've heard Unison
and Alexandria mentioned, and would be curious to see what other
possibilities are out there.

The school doesn't currently employ a librarian, but will probably hire
one in the next few years. I'd like to get a system in place that would
be intuitive for a new librarian to use.

Currently there is no ILS software in place, so I'm just looking for
something to "get the job done" for a reasonable price - something to
let a librarian check books in and out, track what books are checked out
to whom, patron fines, etc.

majadirks

### Comments ###
* KatieR: More detail about your library, what is already in place, and features
you want would be helpful to get a successful answer.


Answer by Wowbagger
----------------
I like Follett Destiny and have found it to be generally user friendly.
There are options to host it locally or have them host it on their
servers. I had to catalog our entire collection myself and found the
copy cataloging to be pretty easy.

You might want to see what system other schools in your area are using.
If you intend to hire locally, then this would raise the chances that
your new librarian is already familiar with the system.

I'd also suggest consulting with whoever is going to be entering all the
books into the system. It might behoove you to get the librarian first,
then the ILS.

### Comments ###
* Joe: an excellent point on looking at other local systems to see what they're
using
* majadirks: Thanks! Great tips. I'll look into Follett and see what other schools
are using.

