---
title : What are known effective uses of QR codes in libraries?
---
What are known effective uses of QR codes in libraries?
=====================
While there are many possible use cases for QR codes in libraries, do
you know of examples that have seen high usage? High is relative to
population but anyone know of examples where QR codes are scanned say
\>100 times in a month?

We tried quite a few use cases including those mentioned by Brian since
last year.

So far no traction here. And we have a population of over 35k students
and the smartphone penetration rate here (national wide) is at least 50%
(some reports say 80%). QRcode recognition is fairly high also. So
technology isn't a issue.

It's puzzling. The only one that gets even some use is a QRcode in the
open stacks that links to the mobile catalogue. I suppose they get stuck
hunting for a book and use it to recheck the catalogue.

I have asked this question in various channels, so far all I see is
presentations on qrcodes in libraries, no statistics presented. Do you
know of presentations where libraries present statistics?

aarontay

### Comments ###
* Henry Mensch: not really an answer, which is why i placed this here:
http://picturesofpeoplescanningqrcodes.tumblr.com/


Answer by Brian Herzog
----------------
A couple uses I've heard of and liked:

-simple use of putting QR codes on library signs: signs for events,
linking to more info, online registration, or event reminders; signs to
sign up for email newsletters, rss feeds, twitter, etc

-putting QR codes in the stacks: in fiction, linking to "if you
liked..." readers advisory lists (or even pre-run searches in Novelist);
in non-fiction, linking to related databases, subject guides, or vetted
websites with more information

### Comments ###

Answer by Michelle McLean
----------------
We are only new to QR Codes, so have yet to get any meaningful
statistics yet, but we are using them as Brian outlined.

All our events marketing, from newsletters to flyers etc, has a QR code
linking to our online booking form and we are trialling the use of QR
codes on shelf talkers, to link people to relevant online content.

### Comments ###

Answer by phette23
----------------
I really like the idea of [giving physical presence to
ebooks](http://acrl.ala.org/techconnect/?p=498) using QR codes. That
link is an ACRL Tech Connect blog post on the subject which shows how
FIU essentially put placeholders for ebooks in their stacks with QR
codes that link to the text itself.

We're going to try this out at our library, but I'm going to
meticulously track usage to see if it's worth the effort. I'm using
[bit.ly](https://bit.ly) to generate the QR codes but will revisit to
see if A) they're getting scanned & B) our before/after ebook usage
shows any increase. My intuition is actually that this might not work
out: I'm in a decidedly low-tech rural area where QR codes are certainly
a mystery to most. I tracked codes on a couple fliers we put out; only 1
user scanned them (besides my test scans).

And because no mention of QR codes in libraries can go without it:
[http://implementingqrcodesinlibraries.org/](http://implementingqrcodesinlibraries.org/)

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
The best one I have scene was Contra Costa Library's Snap & Go program.
' [http://guides.ccclib.org/qr](http://guides.ccclib.org/qr)

They have QR Codes on the BART system. If you are standing on the
station, or on the bus/train there are ads everywhere. You just snap the
picture and the book is automatically downloaded.

From the Site: "Listen to over 600 audiobook titles on the bus with the
Contra Costa County Library's Snap & Go mobile library access.
Wirelessly download audiobooks directly to your cell phone for FREE.
It's a great way to pass time on the bus."

They presented at the California Library Association Annual Conference
in Pasadena last year as part of the Great in the State Program.

### Comments ###

