---
title : What factors need to be considered when developing an innovation committee in a library setting?
---
What factors need to be considered when developing an innovation committee in a library setting?
=====================
Particularly when the committee is charged to be the think tank for the
library system.

CVRader

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Phew. Big question. Here are the assumptions I'm working from (correct
me if any are wrong):

-   The charge is set and cannot be changed at this juncture.
-   The group is supposed to feed new projects and/or services back into
    the rest of the staff (as opposed to a Clayton Christensen-style
    independent offshoot).

*Process* would be my first Big Question. Who suggests ideas to the
innovation committee, and how do they do it? Once an idea is on the
table, how does the committee make a yea-or-nay decision on it, and who
has (de facto or de jure) veto power on a yea decision? Are promising
ideas piloted? How? For how long? How are pilot projects assessed for
promotion to standard library services? Must all changes the library or
any segment thereof are contemplating feed through this committee? If
not, which changes do and which don't?

(It needs to be clear from the outset that pilot-project failure is not
only an option, it's an *expectation*. The only alternatives to that are
bad ones: only the blandest, timidest ideas survive, or ideas that are
bad or unworkable for whatever reason but still make it through the
committee never manage to die. Fail, sweep up after the failure, move on
with analysis but sans blame.)

*Committee membership* would be my second Big Question. I've seen
"innovation committees" that were cliques. I've seen ones whose members
were honestly desirous of innovating, but whose excluded colleagues
believed the committee was a clique, or felt excluded for other reasons
("nobody from [x library division] is on that group, so clearly they
don't care what we think!"). I've seen some with no members from
management; they came up with wonderful ideas but had no authority or
resources to put them in practice. This is a hard political problem; one
way to attack it is to rotate membership on innovation committees, so
that no one gets entrenched and everyone gets heard. Alternately, for
each proposal, figure out which sections of staff would be affected and
put a representative from each affected section on the project group for
that specific project.

*Change management* would be my third Big Question. There's no point in
starting a think tank if it's surrounded by immovable cement
roadblocks... and that's as far as I'm willing to take that metaphor. Is
the think tank responsible for selling an innovation? To whom
(administration, staff, patrons)? What happens when the think tank has
to deal with unjustified change resistance (n.b. not all change
resistance is unjustified)?

Good luck. I have to admit my instinctive reaction to this question was
"here there bee dragons."

### Comments ###
* ksclarke: My instinctive reaction was (in big bold letters): INNOVATION DOESN'T
HAPPEN THROUGH (OR ANYWHERE NEAR A) COMMITTEE; try something else, like
giving people a percentage of their work time to play with new ideas
they've been thinking about...
* dsalo: I wholeheartedly agree. But sometimes in libraries, a committee is what
you're gonna get. /sigh/
* dsalo: The thought occurred that another kind of dysfunctional innovation
committee is "put all the troublemakers in one place so they can be
safely ignored." The sad thing is, the "troublemakers" usually aren't
trying to make trouble, just change.
* CVRader: Yes, I know, yet here I am anyway. We are not dysfunctional yet, and we
have a good mix of Power and Thought, as well as New and Established to
get at least the largest problems in the open.

Answer by mbklein
----------------
I think dsalo's answer is a very good one.

One important qualification, IMO, for committee membership is for the
member to be able to step outside his/her more regular role within the
library. Yes, catalogers and web services librarians and managers and
public service librarians should all be represented, but they need to
hang their separate hats at the door when the "innovation talk" starts.
You need to be able to discuss ideas from a "benefit first"/"default
yes" position, without anyone immediately jumping in with "Yes, but this
will have a disproportionately negative impact on *my* division!"

There will be plenty of time to knock down/pare down ideas for reasons
of cost, feasibility, fairness, workload, and everything else. The
people you brainstorm with have got to be able to put all of that aside
and give ideas time to breathe, or the Innovation Committee will just
become a Stuff That Will Never Happen and Hard Feelings Committee.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Re "default yes:" Bethany Nowviskie of the UVa Libraries has a wonderful
take on it at http://nowviskie.org/2012/lazy-consensus/

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
Basic stuff:

-   Scope: The potential problemset facing libraries is enormous. What
    part are you actually working on? Do members agree on that?
-   Efficiency: What part of the innovation is actually *improved* by
    having a committee and not just, say, a working group, task force or
    hackathon? A committee is a political body. It is suboptimal for
    creative and engineering processes. What political problem are you
    solving? Are you stuck trying to solve an engineering problem
    through "discussion" or a political problem through code? This comes
    back to scope.
-   Power: Imagine you succeed and determine *some damn thing* is the
    best course of action. What happens? Can you actually hire people,
    set policy or acquire/deploy resources? Another way of saying this
    is: what is the *output* of group? Is it adequate to the scope of
    the problem or are you getting all the responsibility and none of
    the authority?
-   Skillz: Interestingly, I don't think you need to staff the committee
    with mainly hardcore engineers. In practice the main value of a
    committee member is bullshit detection (because any chump can repeat
    what the last vendor salesman has been telling them -- if you say
    you need innovation, they are sure to have some for sale) and a
    strong understanding of your business.
-   Recognition problem: innovation is already happening, both inside
    your organization(s) and elsewhere. Would you know it if you saw it?
    You should be able to find it in your problem-space and identify why
    it isn't *already* sufficient to be your solution, or the basis for
    your solution. This is the Turing Test of your raison d'être.

Other than that, "Innovation Committee" is a pretty funny joke in just
two words.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: indeed. it's not quite "jumbo shrimp" but it's darn close.

Answer by Sam K
----------------
Opinion: The committee should be tasked with as little as possible
because committees are typically terrible at getting things done and
worse at innovation. Group brainstorming doesn't work {citation needed}
so don't even try it.

From actual experience: Be sure it's very easy to submit and resubmit
ideas to the committee, with no negative consequences.

The committee should quickly put the ideas through a transparent
process/rubric/matrix that everyone understands. Clarifications should
be requested at the first sign of confusion.

Ideas deemed good the committee should redirect ASAP to anyone(s) who
actually Makes Things Go.

The committee should be comprised of staff with a wide variety of roles
for organization-wide Innovation.

### Comments ###

