---
title: "How do you get a list of Keywords that users are searching for from your subscribed eresources?"
layout: default
---
How do you get a list of Keywords that users are searching for from your subscribed eresources?
=====================
Is there a generic way to capture the search terms users are doing on
subscribed ERESOURCES such as Sciencedirect , proquest etc?

Some platforms allow you to add in scripts do would google Analytics
work here?

Or Is there a more official way?

Do most of them give you logs?

aarontay

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">e-resources</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* phette23: This is entirely variable upon the resource. Some give keywords, some
don't. This question cannot be answered in any reasonable way.
* aarontay: So I guess the answer is no. Thanks.


Answer by Jakob
----------------
I suppose the general answer is no, because most resources are directly
accessed by users, so there is no single point to track access and
search queries. A library could track access from its own intranet and
it might provide its own web interface to the resource, for instance
with a reverse HTTP proxy. [Piwik](http://piwik.org/) is a good tool for
basic analysis. There might be additional tools to analyse standard web
server log files for keywords.

I doubt that external providers give libraries access to *full* logs or
let you install Piwik or similar analytic tools, unless there is one
installation for each library. How about creating a list of particular
providers such as Proquest and directly ask them? We could share such a
list here in a collaborative wiki!

### Comments ###

