---
title: "How to value a library collection"
layout: default
---
How to value a library collection
=====================
I have been asked to find out the most authoritative method for
determining the cost value of a library collection (it is a public
library, so would include books, magazines, dvds, CDs etc). Does anyone
know of any models/resources that could help with this?

Kim Westcott

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">collection</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I don't know about an authoritative method, but I have worked in a
couple of different public libraries and in both, a value was assigned
to each item as it was cataloged. This amount was usually the retail
cost of the item (because in a scenario where we might later have to
replace the item, we cannot be assured of any discounts we might have
gotten on the original purchase) plus a processing fee (as material
processing adds value to the collection in terms of retrievability and
longevity). While using retail numbers may seem to inflate the actual
replacement costs for the specific materials (which may be replaced at a
discounted rate), the actual value of a collection exceeds the value of
the individual items in that it is a *collection* - carefully selected
to be current and to cover a wide range of topics and interests - so on
balance, this warrants the use of the retail price. Obviously, with
prices stored in the catalog record, the total value is easily
calculated by a summation.

All of this ignores the fact that a collection only has value if the
public it serves finds it useful. A collection that is not circulating
well may be out-of-date or out-of-touch. If your health collection in a
public library has only books from the last 5 years, it is valuable. If
the materials are 10 years and older, it is worthless. To truly
understand the value of your collection then, you can't look at
replacement cost and ignore what your circulation rates are telling you.

### Comments ###

Answer by SJeffery
----------------
For general purposes your insurer should already have this information.
If not, contact your state library for the numbers they recomend. Our
technical library uses \$125/item. This number is a lot higher than what
public libraries would be using as technical books tend to be much more
difficult (time consuming and expensive) to replace. For what it is
worth, I would avoid trying to value every individual item as costs tend
to change over time.

### Comments ###

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Most of the time you can use industry standards. Bowkers Books in Print
publishes the average costs for books every year. Adult Fiction
hardcover, Non-Fiction hardcover etc. They changed their website in
February and that information isn't as easily accessible. Baker and
Taylor does publish something you can use.

Baker and Taylor YBP Service
[http://www.ybp.com/title\_reports.html](http://www.ybp.com/title_reports.html)

In 2011, they list:

\
Fiction Hardcover: \$24.33 \
Reference: \$126.31 \
Non-Fiction:\$84.84

Couldn't find a children's category. Perhaps an email to YBP can get
that answer.

Find out your collection size, then use the data and multiply the
average. What you typically want to find is what it would cost if you
had to replace your entire collection today. The Marc information in the
book isn't always current and it is difficult to compile.

### Comments ###

