---
title : Is there a 'knowledge spectrum' for sorting a small selection of books?
---
Is there a 'knowledge spectrum' for sorting a small selection of books?
=====================
I have over 40 books non-fiction books on one shelf. I'd like to be able
to sort them in a logical order. I've developed my own way of sorting
books by subject that loosely relate to one which start like this:

Computing - Photography - Art - Design - Home Improvement - Gardening
...

This works fine, as *I* can find any book in seconds regardless of how
it's arranged because it's easy to memorise. I do wonder if there are
any standards or examples of what I like to call a 'knowledge spectrum'.

Ambo100

### Comments ###
* Joe: related :
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/62/what-are-some-alternates-to-the-dewey-decimal-system
.


Answer by Ben Ostrowsky
----------------
Yes. The best known example is the Dewey Decimal System. Librarians call
these 'classification systems', and as you've noticed, they tend to
group items physically near each other when their subject matter is
related. For larger libraries, this benefit helps users serendipitously
discover books on their topics of interest without knowing the books'
titles beforehand.

### Comments ###
* Ambo100: I know of the Dewey Decimal System and have attempted to use it seems
better suited to a high volume collection of academic books, typically
from a university library. The majority of my books are from high street
book stores. You may notice some of the subjects are named after book
store shelves.
* KatieR: A university library would use the Library of Congress classification
system because it allows cataloging librarians to get much more specific
with a topic than Dewey allows. You might be more interested in BISAC,
which has been discussed in other questions.

Answer by Jakob
----------------
The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) is only the *best known example*
of a classification system. Actually your own system is also a
classification if you put subject separators somewhere in between. In
addition to DDC there are many classifications, also for small
collections. Library scientists have also created more elaborated
systems, such as facetted classifications and thesauri, which allow for
searching in multiple dimensions. But if you want a strict logical
order, a classification is the best you can get, despite its main
drawback: each topic and each book can only have one place. The general
form of a classification is like the outline of a book with chapters,
sections, subsections etc. Obviously there are many possible ways to
structure a book.

If you are looking for an existing classification, you should first
think about whether you want to sort the books *in your collection*
(specialized classification) or all possible books *in general*
(universal classification). Questions on classification systems are
related to knowledge organization and to philosophy of science.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jennifer Arnott
----------------
One of the basic principles of any classification system is helping the
user find what they want. If you're the only (or principle) user of the
collection, you can use any system you like that works for you. Looking
at Dewey, or Library of Congress, or other systems might give you
inspiration, of course.

Personally, while I'm happy to use those systems in my professional
life, they don't fit my personal library at all - I have large numbers
of books in areas both LOC and Dewey handle quite badly (religion that
isn't Christianity, mythology, the use of technology tools). So I sort
these sections in an order that makes sense for me. And within fiction,
I prefer to browse and therefore sort by very specific sub-genre (urban
fantasy, historical mystery, etc.)

The other part has to do with the practical realities of space use: if I
have 5 shelves worth of a general subject, I'm going to store those
somewhere I have space for those five shelves, even if logically, they
might fit better between one topic and another. Or I might choose to
store those books in the room where I use them a lot. Home use has
considerations a public space doesn't.

One informal option for managing a collection is using a catalog (I use
LibraryThing, but there are plenty of others) that will let you tag with
different topics - that way, it's easy (once I set the tags) to browse a
list of items about a particular subject even if they might be shelved
in varied places for other reasons (size, where I'm most likely to want
to use them.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
The thing about libraries is that there are lots of patrons and
librarians -- you use a well established classification system so that
others can make sense of the organization, and can more quickly find
particular items of interest.

If you have a system that works for you, there's absolutely no reason to
change. Personally, I organize my books at home by:

    * Cookbooks
      * Cookbooks, personal favorites (kept just outside the kitchen)
      * Cookbooks, incoming (ones I haven't read yet)
      * Cookbooks, oversized
      * Cookbooks, historical
      * Cookbooks, community
      * Cookbooks, general
    * Oversized, non-cookbooks 
    * Gardening
    * DIY / Home Improvement
    * Architecture
    * IT / Programming
    * Comics
    * Fiction
    * Everything else

The only reason for the oversized sections are for density. Most of the
cookbooks are actually sorted by height rather than topic. (I just have
2.5 bookcases of cookbooks, so it's not as obvious)

### Comments ###

