---
title : Is there a place for print-on-demand book sales in libraries?
---
Is there a place for print-on-demand book sales in libraries?
=====================
This question was inspired by the [Espresso Book
Machine](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q946sfGLxm4) that I saw in my
library news feeds a while back: It allows for immediate print-on-demand
sales of titles that the library might be unwilling to devote
shelf-space to or for people who might prefer to mark in their books.
However, I'm not sure that libraries want to get involved in book sales
(outside of Friends activities; might this be set up by the Friends?),
and I don't know if there's a reasonable selection of such machines or
items in their catalog(s). Does anyone have enough information on these
points and any I might not be thinking of to present a reasonable
pro/con list and recommendation for or against the concept?

Remember to back your answers with facts!

Possibly relevant question: [Would having a self-service kiosk or
"vending machine" apparatus be an effective after-hours
strategy?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/572/345)

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
What type of library?

I doubt it'd be worthwhile in most public libraries when you start
considering space, power, training and maintenance costs. You likely
couldn't use this for self-service, as the configuration shown in the
video leaves most of the parts accessible for maintenance -- you'd
either have to have someone bring the books to the patrons as they're
finished, or you'd have to create some sort of shrouding to protect the
machine (and people) from each other, but removable for servicing.

As for the whole 'facts' thing ... I have no idea what the
specifications are for this machine. However, I *have* worked printing
presses before ... and I'd estimate that to be safe, you'd want 3 to 4
feet of clearance around all sides for maintenance. It'd need to be in a
back room ... and at our local branch, the only way we could pull that
off would be giving up a conference room, as they didn't build in any
space that didn't have an intended purpose.

...

It's possible that it might be worthwhile in an academic library, as a
service for people needing to print their thesis, if there wasn't a
print shop nearby that already met the need. It could also be a value
added service for an 'institutional repository', to deal with issues
like ILL if there were restrictions on distributing digital copies.

I could also see a possible use in corporate / research libraries, as
there are some people who prefer to read on paper or like marking up in
the book, and I'd assume that corporate libraries would be more willing
to spend discressionary money on what is a convenience, but not a
necessity. (of course, they could also buy lots of tables to loan out)

### Comments ###
* SJeffery: I do not see this as being used in corporate libraries for a number of
reasons: - Corporate library funding is a tricky issue. I doubt that
there are many that could justify an expense like this. - Overall
traffic in a corporate library is less than it is in a typical
public/university library, so the cost per printing is going to be much
higher. - I suspect most corporate libraries have access to other
binding options such as high-end printers (that auto-bind) and outside
printers. Research libraries may be in a different situaiton.

