---
title: "What are the effects of charging a fee for putting books on hold?"
layout: default
---
What are the effects of charging a fee for putting books on hold?
=====================
The question presumes, of course, that there is a library known to do
this and the statistics can be examined. From the available facts, does
it appear to be decreasing the number of holds? Is this acceptable? Does
it raise enough funds (proportional to the need of the library and the
costs of collecting the fee) to be worthwhile? How does this vary with
different sized fees?

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* wdenton: There's also the similar angle of what happens if there is a fee for not
picking up books put on hold, as the [Toronto Public Library recently
began to
do](http://www.torontopubliclibrary.ca/using-the-library/placing-holds/\#missed-holds).


Answer by KatieR
----------------
Anecdotally, this was considered in my county when we were going through
budget cuts. The hope was to save money by being more effective with the
inter-county library holds. It costs a lot of money to drive books
around to libraries throughout the county but then they aren't being
picked up, so it's a waste of money to transport them around.

The idea was shot down, county wide at least. I heard rumors of some
libraries putting them into place - though charging for not picked up
holds rather than charging to place the hold. I don't have anymore
information beyond that.

The county did change the interworking of holds, though. For example: if
your home library owns the book then the ILS will wait something like 2
weeks to see if it is returned then it sends it out to the rest of the
county.

### Comments ###
* Joe: My county cut costs by not returning the books after they were borrowed.
(they stay at the branch they were returned to, until someone else puts
in a request)
* KatieR: Very creative. Wouldn't work here because we're a consortium instead of
a county system so each library does its own collection management.

Answer by Kristin Lane
----------------
The Rancho Cucamonga Public Library in Southern California charges a fee
to place holds. From their website..."Patrons may request items that are
currently unavailable (i.e. checked out or not yet released) for a fee
of \$.50. The library will notify you via phone or email when the item
is available for pick up. Items will be held at the Checkout Desk for 7
days. Requests may be placed using the ROC, or by calling the
Information desk at either library. Hold fees are payable when the item
is picked up. You may cancel your hold at any time, at no charge. If you
don't cancel, you will still be charged for items not picked up."
[http://www.cityofrc.us/cityhall/lib/borrow/holds.asp](http://www.cityofrc.us/cityhall/lib/borrow/holds.asp)

They've been doing this for years. You might contact them to see if they
have any stats they could share. (909) 477-2720

### Comments ###

