---
title: "What computer skills are useful/necessary for (non-tech) librarians?"
layout: default
---
What computer skills are useful/necessary for (non-tech) librarians?
=====================
Obviously basic computer use skills (keyboard, mouse, &c.) are necessary
for librarians (unless you're still only using card catalogs and paper
circ records!), but what else is useful or even necessary? What are
libraries looking for when they put "computer skills" in a job posting?

Related questions:

-   [What are important IT skills/tools for systems/tech
    librarians?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/636/345)
-   [Good examples of training or professional development programs for
    librarians to gain digital/tech
    skills](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/435/345)


M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">professional-development</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Could someone (preferably the down-voter) please post a suggestion of
how this could be improved or why it is irredeemably bad?


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
When I put computer skills on a job description for a librarian I
expect:

-   MS Office - Word and Excel. In Word, document creation should
    include headers and footers, outlines, tabs, columns, and inserts.
    Excel proficiency is important for manipulation of stats and
    creation of reports - use of basic formulas, data sorts, and proper
    formatting are essential.
-   Strong search skills in databases and web
-   Basic computer troubleshooting - getting printers to work, for
    example
-   Familiarity with 2.0 technologies - blogs, wikis, etc.
-   Email, of course
-   Scanning basics

Nice, but not required:

-   Some familiarity with HTML (ability to add basic formatting to text)
-   Web design (for us that means Drupal)
-   Graphics expertise (Publisher, PowerPoint, Adobe, Photoshop)

Above all, a librarian should not be afraid of computers and should know
when to ask for help.

### Comments ###
* phette23: I really like your closing sentence. To me, there's only one necessary
skill, & that's it. The ability to learn new skills (because the current
ones won't be applicable forever) is tantamount.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Approving this as the perfect starter answer, but dsalo's answer below
should be checked for specialist extensions to this list.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
I designed an introductory library-technology course in 2007 that (with
changes, to be sure) I still teach. With all that teaching under my
belt, I will give you my personal cri de coeur: *this is an exquisitely
difficult question!*

In lieu of a complete answer (which would take at least a book's worth
of investigation!), some examples of different librarians in different
contexts and what their technology needs might be, in addition to those
Mary Jo Finch has pointed out. The lists below do not pretend to be
exhaustive.

School-media specialists often serve as the first line of tech support
for teachers. Their know-how needs may include:

-   Clickers, if in use locally
-   Smartboards, if in use locally
-   Any and all educational software in use locally
-   Social-media savvy, especially as regards privacy and
    [COPPA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Children%27s_Online_Privacy_Protection_Act)
-   Basic hardware troubleshooting (and advanced is always good)
-   Any technology desiderata enshrined in local or state educational
    goalsetting; they may be among the few who can actually teach the
    requisite skills.

A solo librarian in a rural public library:

-   Hardware and software troubleshooting
-   OS and software installation
-   Enough networking know-how to get a wireless access point up and
    running
-   Technology training expertise (the inimitable Jessamyn West has
    [many a fine slidedeck on this
    subject](http://www.librarian.net/talk/))
-   Basic website design and management skills (no one else is going to
    do it!)

An academic reference librarian:

-   Ins and outs of the local course-management system
-   Ins and outs of the library's course-pages/reference-guides system
-   Social-media savvy, for outreach and patron-service purposes
-   Ins and outs of the local OPAC/"discovery layer"/whatever, including
    the proxy server and OpenURL resolver, enough to help patrons find
    and access what they need
-   Chat reference, possibly including quick-screencast software or
    services (like Jing)
-   Bibliographic citation-management software, enough to consult and
    train. This may entail knowing more than one software package, in
    detail!
-   Ins and outs of database interfaces, ebook interfaces, etc.

A moderately modern-minded cataloger in an academic library:

-   OCLC Connexions, or whatever cataloging client is in use locally
-   MARCEdit, for bulk record editing and other tasks
-   The local OPAC/discovery layer/whatever, especially its
    record-display quirks, and of course its back end (which may include
    a cataloging client)
-   Increasingly, knowledge of MARC/AACR2 alternatives, non-library
    metadata standards and practices, and linked-data principles

Why, yes, designing my course *is* a three-alarm headache, as a matter
of fact!

### Comments ###

