---
title: "If your library requires patrons to have a library card to use the computers, does it restrict their access if they have lost or overdue books? Why?"
layout: default
---
If your library requires patrons to have a library card to use the computers, does it restrict their access if they have lost or overdue books? Why?
=====================
If your library requires patrons to have a library card to use the
computers, does it restrict their access if they have lost or overdue
books? Why or why not?

For example, restricting book borrowing when a patron has been
irresponsible with books lent to them is reasonable, but computers are a
separate service. Does that make it unreasonable? On the other hand,
this might provide added incentive to return items on time and/or pay
their fines. Does that make it reasonable? (Given the ethics and goals
of our profession.)

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Could someone (preferably the down-voter) please post a suggestion of
how this could be improved or why it is irredeemably bad?
* KatieR: I'm concerned that this is going to be way too subjective with no
concrete answer. Everyone can jump in here and say "Well, in my library
we do it this way." I am confident there probably is literature out
there looking at computer use and restrictions relating to it but I
think this could EASILY turn into a thesis rather than a truly
answerable question that is appropriate on SE.
* Henry Mensch: That all depends on how consistently your library collects fines (my
local PL often fails to collect if the fine is small). There's also the
point of passing judgment on your patron (by declaring them
irresponsible when you don't actually know the circumstances). The goal
is to get the loaned material back, not to put up walls which make this
retrieval difficult.
* Mary Jo Finch: Asked the way it is, the question sounds like it is asking for opinions.
Perhaps it could be reworded to ask for experiences with restricting
access due to fines or the sharing of related policies. I think that
"this is how we do it in our library" stories can be very helpful,
particularly when the author explains why or how the policy was
developed. Also, it would be helpful to know if this is a public
library, as access issues are different in different types of libraries.
* M. Alan Thomas II: @MaryJoFinch: I think you're right; I shy away from asking about
experience too much because I'm afraid of just polling my audience for
their personal stories rather than getting an answer, but that leads me
into inviting opinion instead. A slight edit to adjust the tone has been
made, consistent with the answers below.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
In the public library where I work, we issue one-hour guest passes to
people who do not have a library card with us. If a member has a blocked
library card due to accrued fines over \$15, he can get a guest pass
instead of logging in on his library account (which would have allowed
unlimited time). We do not have waiting lines for our computers, so this
allows us to have a fairly generous policy.

The concern in restricting access due to excess fines is that rather
than punishing a member for his irresponsibility in returning materials,
you may instead be punishing him for his inability to afford to pay his
fines. Other members who lose materials and pay for them still get to
use computers, even though they were irresponsible. I think a lot of
people who use computers in public libraries do so because their
financial situation has made home access impossible. Their fines may be
unpaid for good reason.

### Comments ###
* foggyone: Do you charge for the guest passes?
* Mary Jo Finch: We don't charge for a guest pass. It is a one-hour pass (the computer
logs them out after giving them a 5-minute warning). If no one else is
waiting, we will issue another pass.

Answer by jdscott50
----------------
Sometimes the only way for a library to recover lost or stolen materials
is to restrict access to all services. Often, libraries establish a
threshold to which patrons can no longer check-out more materials. The
same is true for lost or overdue materials. Patrons can simply avoid
this by using other services such as the internet or library databases.
However, by blocking all access, the library will encourage the patron
to return materials or pay down his fine.

Is it worth it to block access, is the practice successful, or will you
just never see the patron again? Everyone will have a different opinion
as to whether libraries should do this and I don't believe there is a
correct answer either way.

### Comments ###

Answer by Helgagrace
----------------
I have seen a lot of patrons who need access to the public computers in
order to get jobs that would enable them to pay back their fines. They
often resort to using other people's cards and are not really affected
by our policy of restricted access above \$10 in fines. Or they
disappear from the library altogether and cease being invested in what
we're offering. I believe that, if this method is used to induce patrons
to return items, the threshold should be significantly higher than our
\$10 or the \$15 mentioned elsewhere. If a patron has \$50 in lost or
overdue items, then it's probably worth the library's while to block
them from computer access and use a collection agency to go after the
money. This would enable people who don't have a *serious* problem
returning items to continue using some of the resources that the library
provides. And if the worry is that they will continue to check out and
lose/not return items, they could be restricted from borrowing
additional items but still allowed to use the public computers.

Bottom line: Not allowing them to use the computers probably hurts them
a lot more than it helps us.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Hard to choose between this and Mary Jo Finch's answer, which argue much
the same point in different ways. Anyone having trouble this one might
find that more understandable.

