---
title: "What's a good policy for dealing with book (movie, music, &c.) challenges?"
layout: default
---
What's a good policy for dealing with book (movie, music, &c.) challenges?
=====================
1.  How should the initial challenger be dealt with?
2.  What should happen to the item while it is being reviewed (kept on
    shelf, pulled, ???)?
3.  How should the item be reviewed and with what criteria?
4.  How should the decision be announced?

Anything else?

M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">censorship</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* KatieR: This question, with the "Anything else?", is a little bit too much like
a poll. Maybe something more like "What are some effective ways to
handle challenges to materials held in the library? Specifically, what
are the steps that the library goes through when addressing a challenge
to something held by the library?"


Answer by jdscott50
----------------
It can very from library to library. Usually, a patron who challenges a
book is asked to fill out a form specifying why they think the book
should be pulled. Typical questions are: Did you read the book? Have you
read any review of the book? can you specify what you found offensive?

The book is then reviewed by the library director or library advisory
board. At that time the book is typically out of circulation for review.
The library can use existing book reviews or pull similar books for
comparison.

The library director will respond directly to that patron as to whether
the book is going to be restored to the collection or pulled and why.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
*From our Policy/Procedures Manual*

> 1.  REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION PROCEDURES
>
> 2.  Get the complaint in writing.
>
> 3.  Properly identify the complainant.
> 4.  Identify the item in question.
> 5.  State clearly the specific reason for the complaint.
> 6.  Defer action until all facts are collected and full consideration
>     can be given.
> 7.  Give all complaints a courteous and dispassionate response.
>
> ROUTINES FOR REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION
>
> 1.  All questions concerning the library collection are referred to
>     the professional library staff.
> 2.  Principles of selection are discussed with the individual. *[also
>     in Policy/Procedure Manual]*
> 3.  The patron may fill out a Request for Reconsideration if further
>     action is desired.
> 4.  The Director will report the Request for Reconsideration to the
>     City Manager with copies to the Library Board along with the
>     reasons for selection or exclusion.
> 5.  The individual will be notified of the opportunity to discuss the
>     request with the Library Board at a regular meeting.
> 6.  The Library Board will make a recommendation to the Library
>     Director and report to the individual.
> 7.  The final decision rests with the Library Director.


### Comments ###
* Henry Mensch: item \#0: Have a policy in advance.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Depending on where you live, there may be services available to you to
assist with coping with challenges. In Wisconsin, for example, the
[Cooperative Children's Book
Center](http://www.education.wisc.edu/ccbc/freedom/default.asp) provides
consulting in case of challenge to K-12 materials, as well as the
guidelines freely available on their website and a discussion forum for
teachers and librarians.

### Comments ###

