---
title: "What are the available options for advanced (i.e., multi-field) searches in Horizon?"
layout: default
---
What are the available options for advanced (i.e., multi-field) searches in Horizon?
=====================
What are the available options for advanced (i.e., multi-field) searches
in Horizon? How can I construct one?

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###


Answer by Gem
----------------
This is partially dependent on how your Horizon\* install was setup.
With the right know-how, your sys admin can create indexes for pretty
much any MARC record field. For the most part, Horizon indexes are
divided into two different kinds: Browse and Keyword. With a few
exceptions, such as ISBN, there is no such thing as an "Exact" search.
If you are wanting to search multiple indexes at a time, you have to use
keyword searches. You can't combine browse searches together.

BASIC SEARCH (and options): There are a couple of different ways to do
more advanced searches in Horizon. From your basic search, by pressing
F2, you have access to all the browse, keyword, and exact indexes that
have been setup in your search profile, which may not be all the indexes
available (this is something your sys admin controls). From here you can
search one field at a time. However, you can also add a "restriction" by
clicking the "restrict" button. The restrictions are based on item, not
bib, information and thus do not correspond to the MARC record. These
are all setup by your sys admin but there may be some defaults. We have
the ability to restricted to "checked in" status, specific collection
codes, and locations.

Once you get your initial results, if you used a keyword index such as
the "General Keyword" that returns titles, versus authority records,
you'll also have the ability to "limit" your results further. This is
done by clicking the "limit" box on the bottom of the results page.
Limits can be tricky to use unless you understand the back-end
cataloging. They are based on the MARC record so you must use MARC codes
when appropriate. For example, if you wish to limit to English language
titles, you need to put in the code "eng". Again, like everything else,
the actual limit options you have are dependent on your sys admin. Also,
limits and indexes in Horizon are really stupid. They only search for
exactly what you ask them to. For instance, reading level is often put
in as a range. However, when you search for reading level, if you enter
8, it'll only find items that have 8 in the reading field and ignore
those that should include 8 such as if it's entered as 7-10. Limits can
be used on top of each other so you could, for example, first limit to
autobiographies and then limit further based on number of pages.

EXPERT SEARCH: The expert search is the easiest way to do multi-field
searches. You get to it by opening the basic search and then clicking
the "Command Mode" button on the top right. Scroll through your index
options and then double click on the first index you want to use. It
will appear down below in the search command section. Here's an example
of how our author keyword search looks:

    <authkw: >

enter your search term after the colon:

    <authkw: john grisham>

(Horizon is case insensitive and keyword indexes don't care what order
you put the terms in. HOWEVER, there is a bug in the 7.5+ version that
will cause Horizon to report an error if you try to put a comma in the
search term. This was not a problem when we were on 7.3.4.)

Arrow past the closing greater than sign and enter your Boolean term or
click one of the operator buttons. Then double click the next index you
want to use. For instance, my final query might look something like
this:

    <authkw: john grisham> NOT <subjkw: christmas>

Once you're finished creating it, hit the search button. At this point,
you can limit the results further if desired.

MISC Notes:

-   Horizon's Boolean operators are not case sensitive (unlike current
    versions of HIP). As a result, when using keyword indexes be very
    careful to avoid using Boolean operator's such as NOT otherwise you
    may inadvertently exclude the titles you were looking for. For
    example, if you used the title keyword index to search for "Size 12
    is not Fat", you should enter your query as "Size 12 is Fat".
-   The asterisk is a wild card character in Horizon and HIP.
-   Avoid punctuation marks in your query, particularly exclamation
    points and question marks.

Here are the keyword indexes we have in our install:

-   Author Keyword
-   General Keyword
-   Subject Keyword
-   Title Keyword
-   Age Level Keyword (I believe this was custom)
-   Name Keyword
-   Publisher Keyword
-   Reading Level Keyword (I believe this was custom)
-   Serial Title Keyword
-   Series Keyword
-   Spanish Title Keyword

Here are the limit options we have:

-   All authors
-   Awards note
-   BK--Biography
-   BK--form of item
-   Edition
-   Edition - Unabridged Audiobook
-   Format Limits
-   Genre
-   Imprint
-   Language Codes
-   Medium (gmd)
-   MPAA Ratings
-   Physical Description
-   Publisher Date
-   Publisher
-   Series
-   Series number
-   Subject
-   Target Audience
-   Title

There's a lot more detail that I could go into but hopefully this covers
the basics of your question. If you or your Horizon sys admin want more
information on setting up the indexes, I highly recommend subscribing to
the Horizon-L listserv (I think you have to sign up on SirsiDynix's
website).

\*Just to clarify, when I say "Horizon" I mean the staff search side and
when I say "HIP" (Horizon Information Portal) I mean the patron side.

### Comments ###

