---
title: "What's a good way to increase classroom–library collaboration in grades 6–8?"
layout: default
---
What's a good way to increase classroom–library collaboration in grades 6–8?
=====================
What does the library have that this age group in particular needs, and
how can that be delivered to them? Even if that's not through the
classroom, what's going on in the classroom that can get those kids into
the library anyway?

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Asking "what's going on in the classroom" is BIG. Each state has its own
standards each grade has to meet. While there are general things that
students should learn in grades 6-8, it could still have huge
differences between public schools & private schools and between states.
Asking specifically about research and library skills that are typically
taught in grades 6-8 could be more specific.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Not sure if you are asking this from the school library or the local
public library, but to find out what's going on in the classroom - go
right to the source. Visit classes or visit teachers' websites to see
what they're doing. In our public library, we have tried to coordinate
with units of studies in our local schools, but it is very difficult.
Teachers do not have time to be emailing us ahead of time, so often we
aren't geared up for the next big project when kids turn up looking for
materials.

If you are asking how to get middle schoolers into the library, you
might want to take a look at Eli Neiburger's talk called "Access
Schmaccess: Libraries in the Age of Information Ubiquity."
[http://www.vala.org.au/vala2012-proceedings/vala2012-plenary-6-neiburger](http://www.vala.org.au/vala2012-proceedings/vala2012-plenary-6-neiburger)
The video is about an hour long and worth every minute of your time - it
focuses on the public library but the information is applicable to all
types. Eli encourages librarians to think beyond traditional containers
for information, because people are getting much of their information
from non-library sources and without the help of a librarian. We need to
offer things they cannot get from other sources. Most specifically, we
are talking about programs (speakers, projects, demos) and creation labs
(an example:
[http://tametheweb.com/2012/06/18/idea-box-from-the-oak-park-public-library/](http://tametheweb.com/2012/06/18/idea-box-from-the-oak-park-public-library/)).

I think it's not so much about what we have that they would want. It's
about finding out what they want and then having it. There is no formula
for what will work in any particular community, of course. Gaming is
popular in some communities but it flopped in ours. We had a guy with
telescopes at the library for the transit of Venus and 400 people turned
up - a lot of them teens and tweens. A Holocaust survivor drew standing
room only crowds, the bulk of them teens. Sometimes it's hit or miss.
But you can also get out into the community and see what middle
schoolers are into or ask the middle schoolers in your community.

### Comments ###

