---
title: "What is the process to make a digital file available via the Library Catalog?"
layout: default
---
What is the process to make a digital file available via the Library Catalog?
=====================
I have some various files (music, eBooks, pdf) that we either own the
rights to or are out-of-copyright. I'd like to make them available to
patrons for downloading via our catalog. Is there an accepted way to
host those files, and then link to them in the Catalog?

*We're using Innovative Interfaces if that makes any difference.*

JakeParis

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-media</li><li class="tag">digital-collections</li><li class="tag">innovative-interfaces</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Well, you have two challenges here: where to store, serve, and preserve
the files, and how to make them available in your catalog.

The former problem is the domain of your digital library or
institutional repository, if you have these platforms available to you.
(You didn't mention whether you're from a public or academic library;
academic libraries are more likely to host digital content. Innovative
offers an IR platform called ContentPro, which you may or may not have
bought.) Check also with any consortia you belong to; they may be able
to help you find a good home for the files.

If you don't have a digital-collections platform, you may wish to
investigate [contributing the public-domain materials to the Internet
Archive](http://archive.org/about/faqs.php#Uploading_Content). It may
also be possible to send IA the materials you own rights to, assuming IA
is satisfied with your ownership claim and you are content with the
license IA will ask you for.

As for catalog availability, you can original-catalog these materials,
though if you haven't cataloged digital multimedia before, you'll have
to think through some issues (ones I am sadly not competent to comment
on). Alternately, if your materials wind up in digital-library or IR
platform, and your ILS is what III calls "Encore," [III claims that the
system will do OAI-PMH
harvesting](http://encoreforlibraries.com/products/), which will
more-or-less automagically dump your digital-collections metadata into
your catalog.

Hope this helps!

### Comments ###
* JakeParis: Great answer. thank you!

