---
title: "Using Facebook with teen volunteers or teen audience: address Facebook's 13+ age limit or not?"
layout: default
---
Using Facebook with teen volunteers or teen audience: address Facebook's 13+ age limit or not?
=====================
Some context: Teens (and tweens) are avid users of Facebook. A likely
place for libraries to connect with teens is on Facebook. We know that
our "teen" initiatives, collections and activities frequently attract
younger patrons. Facebook's age policy says users [must be 13 or
older](https://www.facebook.com/help/?faq=210644045634222).

Thus, my question: If a library plans to use Facebook to connect with
teens -- for example, using a Facebook group for teen volunteers, or a
Facebook page directed at teen users -- and we know that targeting teens
often attracts tweens, should the library somehow address Facebook's age
policy? If so, how?

Possible points and situations to consider:

-   A FB group is a great place to share info with select teens (like a
    Teen Council). Given that these teens may be in an official library
    role (registered volunteers or members of a library program such as
    Teen Council) do we/should we have any responsibility when the
    younger members join the FB group?
-   If we actively target teens on FB, is it incumbent upon us to point
    out FB's age limit (and if so, where/how?) or expect patrons to
    inform themselves?

-   As partners in helping guardians find the info they need to make
    decisions for their families, do we provide [info about the FB age
    limit](https://www.facebook.com/help/parents)?

-   Does anyone have a helpful policy (or established practice) along
    these lines?


Debrarian

### Comments ###
* Debrarian: Too much emphasis on opinion? I'm aiming for policy and concrete
suggestions, plus the rationale that supports them.
* jdscott50: The question comes out a little wonky. Maybe, What's the best way to use
Facebook with Tweens? What would be some of the issues with age limits?
* Debrarian: I was thinking that was too big a question (and if we are targeting
anyone intentionally, I'd want to aim for teens rather than tweens
because of FB's age policy). But lemme ponder. Thanks for the feedback!
* jdscott50: You're right, that's too big. Maybe "what's the best way to address age
limits?"
* Debrarian: Made some edits to clarify and narrow the focus of the question.
* Joe: As one of the few people out there who don't actually use facebook -- I
thought that it was possible to use facebook like a blog for
distributing information, even if people don't log in. Has that changed?


Answer by KatieR
----------------
> A FB group is a great place to share info with select teens (like a
> Teen Council). Do we create a FB group and only invite the teens who
> are old enough to join it, even if we have some Teen Council members
> who are too young? Do we ignore it when the younger members join the
> FB group anyway?

Even if a person is part of your group, you can't see their profile
unless they have low privacy settings. Do you plan on going through and
checking every single member's profile or, if you can't see their age,
check their account in your ILS?

> Do we need to point it out at all?

This is very similar to "Do we check out R rated movies to those under
17?". Some libraries go to great lengths to make sure that those under
17 can't get R rated movies and those under 13 can't get PG-13 movies.
Others write it into their card policy that the parent is responsible
for what their child gets from the library and they won't act *in loco
parentis*.

### Comments ###
* Debrarian: I know the ages of my Teen Council members (for example) because they
fill out an application to be TC members. And that makes them official
volunteers for whom we have assumed some responsibility -- which to my
mind is different from making materials (like R movies) available to the
general public and leaving it up to them to decide about checking them
out. Do you have suggestions about how to handle FB's age policy (or not
handle it) specifically when we use FB with teens or actively target
teens on FB?
* KatieR: Is your goal to advertise Teen Council or simply have a way to
communicate with existing members? If it is to only communicate, I would
say the best thing to do in the situation is to create a private
facebook group and then invite those who you accept into your Teen
Council. It is really up to Facebook & parents to control who is on the
site. If you accept younger kids into your Teen Council AND they are on
Facebook, then allow them into their group because at some point the
parent or Facebook allowed the kid on the site.
* Debrarian: I'm more interested in a general answer to the policy question. But in
the case of this eg., I have a TC, we have a FB group for communication,
the teens who set it up of course invited all TC members, including some
who are officially too young to be on FB. I myself just let the TC know
about it and let the teens decide whether to join. I'd like to know if
anyone has set up a teen FB group under official library auspices, and
if so, did they feel obliged to mention the FB age limits or not. Since
they're using an age-restricted medium as an official communication tool
with a teen/tween group.

