---
title: "What do Academic/University libraries do with back issues of journals?"
layout: default
---
What do Academic/University libraries do with back issues of journals?
=====================
We have no space left to store back issues of journals onsite, we have
put some back issues into storage but this is proving very expensive. We
were thinking of only storing back issues that are not available online,
what do other libraries do when they are at bursting point?

user538

### Comments ###


Answer by Melissa
----------------
Our collection development policy guides which journals we keep and
which we recycle. Newstand-type and pleasure-reading get recycled after
six months; journals covered heavily in .pdf full text in our databases
go after a year. We only keep journals that are not covered in the
databases. Perhaps someday the library staff will have to revisit this
policy if we run out of room, but then collection development policies
are not set in stone ...

### Comments ###

Answer by cpikas
----------------
Many libraries are entering into cooperative agreements with other
libraries in their region such that one library will keep a print copy
as a backup and other libraries will discard theirs.

Some libraries discard back issues of journals when

-   the online archive is backed up in Portico or CLOCKSS
-   the online copy is the version of record/official version
-   the online version has the full text including images, etc.


### Comments ###
* dsalo: The Ithaka report "What to Withdraw" suggests various criteria to be
measured when deciding whether to withdraw print journals (or other
print material).
http://www.sr.ithaka.org/research-publications/what-withdraw-print-collections-management-wake-digitization

Answer by Joe
----------------
The others have mentioned weeding policies, but the question could also
cover 'how to dispose' of the back issues.

My current place of work's institutional library has a policy of what
they'll do with materials no longer needed. I'm working from memory, but
it includes giving stuff to other departments, local universities, and
even individual employees.

I've been trying to get [NASA ADS](http://adswww.harvard.edu/) higher in
their priority list, as they're currently vesting themselves of all
printed materials, and when I disposed of our local departmental library
(disposing of anything in ADS, and all others to the main library), two
weeks later ADS put out a call for some of the stuff we had disposed of,
so they get some higher quality scans.

Also, there may be other places interested in the back articles. I
regularly see postings on [SLA's PAMNET mailing
list](http://pam.sla.org/manual/pamnet-information/) of weeding lists,
asking if anyone's interested in journal back issues or duplicate books.
I can only assume they do it because there are people who want them.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Libraries who want complete runs of a print journal often have to ask
around for individual issues that have been lost or damaged. That's the
reasoning behind "I have this; anybody want it?" posts on listservs and
whatnot.

Answer by John Kiplinger
----------------
Libraries with lists of journals in JSTOR for which they wish to
deaccession the corresponding print back volumes may also contact JSTOR
directly to see if JSTOR could use the print volumes for either of the
two print repositories that it sponsors. We are working on making
up-to-date print repository needs lists available via our website, but,
in the meantime, you may contact us directly at:
[Issues.needed@jstor.org](http://mailto%3aIssues.needed@jstor.org)

### Comments ###

