---
title: "School Library Summer Loans"
layout: default
---
School Library Summer Loans
=====================
What kind of policies do your school libraries have regarding loaning
books over summer vacation?

My school does not have a summer library loan policy, but I'm
considering implementing one next year. We have a large Arabic
collection and the local public libraries' Arabic resources are limited,
so the demand is there. My concern is that if students don't return to
our school in the fall (this is not uncommon), I'll have no way of
recovering the books. Requiring a deposit might help with this, but I'm
curious to see how other schools handle the issue.

Wowbagger

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I used to work in a public library that partnered with the local high
school every summer to offer summer reading materials. The high school
would send us several boxes of materials which we would temporarily
catalog. With their permission, we put a card pocket in the front with a
card in it that had our identifying information and our bar code (at the
end of summer, we pulled the cards from the pockets to remove our
markings). I think we also put a colored circle sticker on the spine to
indicate it was a high school book - these books were shelved
separately. Kids (or any member) could check out the materials on their
public library card, and they were held to public library due dates. The
school library did not hold us responsible for lost books, and we chased
after late materials just like we chase after all late materials. The
books were returned to the school at the end of summer.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jeni
----------------
I allowed students to borrow up to 6 books over the summer. You could
have a simple permission slip for parents to sign and include the fact
that the books could be returned to the school office if they moved over
the summer (assuming you have an agreeable office!). We lost no books.

### Comments ###

