---
title : What happens to the private archives of old professors once they retire or die?
---
What happens to the private archives of old professors once they retire or die?
=====================
> **Possible Duplicate:**\
>  [What policies/practices do research libraries have for collecting
> faculty members' personal papers and research
> materials?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/421/what-policies-practices-do-research-libraries-have-for-collecting-faculty-member)

One physics professor at the University of Washington told me that the
university throws the vast majority of the material away. Which is a
huge net loss to society.

Is there anything more productive that could happen to these archives?

InquilineKea

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is going to vary based on the location and the institution....


Answer by dsalo
----------------
The physics professor was correct. There simply isn't space to archive
everything, nor (even more importantly) staff to organize, describe, and
preserve it.

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: To say nothing of how much the material is on their computers today, and
how ill equipped cultural heritage institutions are to deal with that.

Answer by Joe
----------------
I'm going to assume what I think the implied question is -- what could /
should they be doing?

Some groups will go to the professor before they retire, and get their
help in determining what needs to be archived or otherwise cataloged /
preserved. [John Broome gave a talk at CODATA in
2008](http://www.codata.org/08conf/abstracts/Broome-Data%20Stewardship%20at%20the%20Earth%20Sciences%20Sector.htm)
talking about how they were able to get high rates of cooperation, as
the scientists understood that it a matter of preserving their legacy.

If the professor dies suddenly, some schools will assign someone from
their department, preferably someone with whom they were collaborating,
to go through their stuff to try to determine what's of value. I've also
heard of PhD advisees being assigned the task.

In some cases, there may be contractual obligations -- if they were the
PI on federally funded grants, there may be data or other results that
must be preserved, so that needs to be identified and saved.

But even with all that, the majority of the stuff *is* going to be
thrown out -- most of what they have in their office is going to be
journals articles, books, and other stuff that isn't anything unique.

Their notes of what they're currently working on, if they retire, they
might take with them to continue working after they've stopped teaching.
If they died, their notes might not be in any state for someone else to
make sense of; unless there was a collaborator who can make sense of
them, they're likely worthless. It might be understood in retrospect
decades from now, but most libraries and archives just don't have the
funding and/or space to keep everything -- you have to prioritize on
what has the most value, and you either box the stuff up to make sense
of later, or just pitch it.

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
Yes, there is a clear selection process that happens to decide what to
keep and for what purpose.

Keeping everything is not only a problem because of space requirements
but also a problem in that the more you keep the more stuff someone has
to look through to find the things that matter. This is often refereed
to as [archival
appraisal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archival_appraisal).

### Comments ###

Answer by Harrison W. Inefuku
----------------
The question you pose assumes that all the documents a professor has
accumulated over the course of his/her career is worth permanently
retaining in an archives. However, there are factors a university
special collections/archives will consider when determining whether to
(1) accept the archives of a professor and (2) to determine what in that
professor's archives holds archival value.

All archives face challenges of space and staffing constraints. Most
archives don't have the luxury of empty shelving awaiting new fonds (a
person's archives), and the nature of archives and archival operations
makes it difficult to weed out materials (deaccession) that have already
been formally acquired by an archives (archival principles such as the
archival bond and the principle of provenance, and administrative
hurdles such as donor agreements are some of the challenges to
deaccession). Most archives don't have the staff hours necessary to
process and provide access to the materials it accepts. This necessarily
limits the number of faculty fonds a university archives can accept, so
the archives will have to consider, amongst other factor, the
relationship between the faculty member and the university and the
contributions the faculty member has made to his/her field when deciding
whether his/her fonds will be accepted.

If the faculty member's fonds is accepted, the archives will need to
conduct an archival appraisal to determine which records hold the most
archival value (which records provide evidence of significant
transactions, which records contain the most informational value, etc.).
For some records, laws on privacy make deposit in an archives
unfeasible—in most jurisdictions, legislation places additional
requirements on protection of privacy in medical and student records (in
the United States, for example, these areas fall under HIPAA and FERPA,
respectively). Some records duplicate information found in another
record in a more efficient or effective form (final versions vs. drafts,
or a course sylbus that describes major assignments, rather than the
description sheets for each assignment).

Archival appraisal is always a balancing act between a desire to
preserve the integrity of a person's fonds while recognizing an
archives' inability to preserve everything and there is no international
standard available to guide archivists on how to proceed. Indeed, it's
an area of archival science that is fairly contentious.

To think about how few of the records created by an institution end up
in an archives, in most national governments, only about 5–10% of the
records created by the government will make it into the country's
archives. On a more personal level, think about your desk. Would you
want to preserve every piece of paper that is on your desk and every
file you have stored on your computer? You'd probably want to do some
weeding before giving your records over to an archives.

### Comments ###

Answer by edwardiglesias
----------------
This is a complicated issue that will vary by institution. At one
library I worked at we were bequeathed a law professors email. All of
it. He had it in a number of formats and the vast majority was of no
interest. Some contained email conversations with Supreme court Justices
on landmark decisions.

Hard to tell.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jenn Riley
----------------
As others have said, university archives and libraries don't typically
keep *all* of a faculty's papers, and indeed usually are selective of
which faculty members they keep *any* records for. "Personal digital
archiving", certainly not limited to faculty work, is gaining some
strong interest, empowering individuals to take charge of their own work
for their later use, and for the use of others that might be interested,
whether family or professional. A place to start learning about personal
digital archiving efforts is
[http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/personalarchiving/](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/personalarchiving/).

### Comments ###

