---
title: "What unique challenges and benefits exist when lending ebooks compared to traditional print books?"
layout: default
---
What unique challenges and benefits exist when lending ebooks compared to traditional print books?
=====================
With libraries in the constant struggle to remain relevant and useful to
their patrons and seeing eBook use rise, what are some unique challenges
and benefits facing libraries when integrating eBooks into the
collection?

KatieR

### Comments ###


Answer by user130
----------------
We are having these issues:

1.  Keeping staff knowledgeable about all the different devices patrons
    may use to read their eBooks.

2.  Explaining to people that due to publishers, we can't simply lend
    out our one digital copy to an unlimited number of people (I know --
    I've asked our vendor).

3.  With our vendor, if a patron accidentally checks out the wrong
    format, I have to contact the vendor to ask them to remove the eBook
    from the patron's account.



### Comments ###

Answer by quinnrosie
----------------
In addition to what user130 says, I would add:

-   Lack of control - the publishers keep changing the rules, but to our
    patrons, we're the bad guys. We get questions like "Why don't you
    have this book in Kindle format, I see it for sale on Amazon?" and
    "Why don't you let us renew ebooks?". To the patron, we are the
    entity keeping things complicated, and it's hard to make them
    understand that it's not us.
-   Lack of standardization - our library now subscribes to 2 eBook
    services, 2 eAudiobook services, and 2 downloading/streaming music
    services. They all set their own rules, have their own agreements
    with publishers, their own formats, compatible devices, etc. It
    makes it very difficult to help patrons when they call with
    problems, since just figuring out which service they are using can
    be challenging at times.

That being said, there are certainly benefits. Once Overdrive started
offering Kindle format books, our patrons were so so so happy! It's
always nice when that happens, and I don't think we have any choice but
to keep offering more and more options to people if we want to stay
relevant.

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Libraries can lend print books because of the legal doctrine of "first
sale," which states that copyright owners cannot control what is done
with legally-made physical copies of their copyrighted material.

First sale does not apply to digital materials. To lend them, libraries
must sign a licensing agreement with the intellectual-property owner or
an agent thereof. At present, ebook licensing agreements (as noted
above) tend to be heavily disfavorable to common patterns of library
usage.

Digital-rights management (DRM) technologies, applied to library-lent
ebooks to (more in theory than in actuality) prevent unlicensed copying,
often cause extra support and service hassles in libraries; they also
prevent many preservation activities, and create a risk that the library
may lose entirely content to which it has purchased access.

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
In addition to user130's keeping staff knowledgeable, I'd say that
there's also a need to train patrons. While reading a paper book is self
explanatory, there's a steeper learning curve for ebooks. Patrons may
need teaching on how to use the ereader in general and will certainly
need training on how to use it with the library's software, especially
since publishers can and do make libraries jump through more hoops to
read an ebook.

Providing access to the ebooks is another important aspect. Do you
simply host a collection and let patrons do their own downloading from
home or from a app? Or do you have computer stations set up with the
software to allow them to download at the library. And do you lend the
ereaders themselves?

Touching on dsalo's point, the library does not own the ebook when it is
purchased. The library owns particular rights to using it that can often
hinge on rules set by the publisher--a limited number of circulations, a
set time frame in which the ebook is available, the 'one copy one
patron' rule. This also means that library access to purchases through a
specific vendor may disappear when leaving the vendor or if the vendor
shuts down, losing the money as well as materials.

On the side of benefits, providing ebooks and training will be great for
getting the public to see libraries as current & necessary--and not
rooted solely in the paper object. eBooks also allow libraries to be
'always' available (at least to patrons with home computer
access)--those collections will be open even when the library is closed.

### Comments ###
* dsalo: I can't see "reading a paper book is self-explanatory" without posting
the ObVideo https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQHX-SjgQvQ :)

Answer by Samantha Poyer
----------------
Another issue is how your vendor handles renewals and checkout periods.
Ours has the patron declare in advance how long they will keep the book.
Patrons can't return it before the declared date- and it disappears from
their device when their checkout period has expired. This leads to a lot
of confusion, especially since it doesn't match our policies on other
media. The preset amount of time means ebooks frequently can't circulate
quickly enough to match demand.

On the upside, ebooks do bring people into the library system. Since our
offered ebook titles are usually the most popular print books, they also
decrease stress on other parts of the system, like check-ins and holds.

### Comments ###

