---
title: "Should the average time between technology book weedings be lower?"
layout: default
---
Should the average time between technology book weedings be lower?
=====================
Technologies change very rapidly over time. This is especially apparent
in the rate of publication of new computer/technology books.

It would only be sensible to maintain the library's collection at the
pace of these new releases, but budgets and other constraints normally
get in the way. Even if new books cannot be purchased to replace them,
is it practical to get rid of older tech books as soon as they become
outdated? Should these technology collections be weeded 2-3 times more
frequently than those of other more "timeless" books and at least on a
yearly basis?

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">weeding</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Primarily weeding is done to create space and remove books that have no
demand with users. If space is an issue, weeding can be done more often
but you would also have to factor in the additional costs of staff to do
this and the possibility of rising complaints from people who use older
materials.

Although technology development is dynamic, there is often a ripple
effect on consumers. Some may want the latest book whilst others may not
need this information until the change has become embedded. Take a look
at your circulation statistics on these materials to determine where the
demand is, and if you need to weed more often.

Finally, rather than weed physical items, consider if you should be
purchasing more e-books in this area instead. It will save time, space
and the need to weed often; plus it is an area that you know will have
PC literate borrowers.

### Comments ###

Answer by Brian Herzog
----------------
I second Deborah's response - technology changes quickly, but not
everyone adopts new technology at the same rate. We still circulate
Windows 95 books right along side our books on how to create smartphone
apps.

As technology ages though, the books I end up keeping are the books on
the extremes - the "Dummies"-type books for the really beginner patron,
and the "Missing Manual"-type books for the really hands-on patron. All
the intermediate books are the ones I weed to make space for books on
new topics.

I have been weeding more heavily in this area since we subscribed to the
Safari Computer Ebooks database, but not completely. The model we have
is a rolling subscription, with books older than 3 years dropping out
(and becoming unavailable to our patrons) and being replaced with newer
books. Because we lose access to older books, it can't be relied on to
support older technology.

Because of this model, I've just been buying fewer of the in-depth books
in general. Programmers are comfortable using the database, so I buy
fewer Java and other higher level programming books. This lets me buy
more of the Dummies and "iPad for Beginners"-type books for the patrons
who need print (also, I make sure to have computer and network
troubleshooting books in print, because if someone can't access the
internet from home, then they can't get to the database).

### Comments ###
* jonsca: \`also, I make sure to have computer and network troubleshooting books
in print, because if someone can't access the internet from home, then
they can't get to the database\` - an excellent point!

