---
title : What is an inexpensive way to back up a digital collection?
---
What is an inexpensive way to back up a digital collection?
=====================
My collecting institution has a small digital collection. Because the
collection is rather small backing items up to DuraCloud or in a LOCKSS
system are not feasible. Backing items up on the institution's server is
currently happening, but there are currently no redundant copies of
materials. DuraCloud and LOCKSS backs up items multiple times in
multiple locations, but both of these cost about \$4k per year.

Raminta

### Comments ###
* jeff: Can you provide an estimate of the total size of the collection that you
wish to back up?
* Jakob: Unless you confuse backup and (bitstream) preservation, the best way to
backup a digital collection is equal to the best way of backup any other
data. It all depends on the total size of your data, the frequency of
updates and your requirements on restore.
* Joe: USB / Firewire disks, taken off site?
* Raminta: Currently the collection is about 20GBs and will be expanding. The main
issue is making sure there are redundant copies for preservation
purposes. DuraCloud seemed like an excellent solution for large
collections as did LOCKSS, however this is just a small collection (so
far).
* Joe: USB thumb drive, taken off site? (okay, really, for this sort of size
... you could easy rsync to a few different places each night ... of
course, you'll need to actually test the backups)


Answer by jeff
----------------
Others have pointed out that there are a lot of similarities between
backing up a "digital collection" and backing up just about any kind of
data.

Some ways in which your situation may differ from a general data backup
challenge:

-   Your data may be more public in nature
-   Others may have interest in or see value in the data

Here's an overview of options, without going into too much detail on
each. Any of the options may be combined as you see fit.

Some of the options may not be suitable for all collections. Some of
these might not strictly qualify as "backups".

Almost Free
-----------

### Accession by Others as Backup

If you upload your collection (or a portion of your collection) to [the
Internet Archive](http://archive.org/) or [The
Commons](http://www.flickr.com/commons) on Flickr, there's now one more
copy than there was before.

### Ad-hoc Reciprocal Storage

Find one or more organizations with similar interests or needs, and
arrange to keep a copy of each other's data.

You can make this as simple or as complex as you want. Ideally, it
should be automated unless your data is extremely static.

Options include:

-   Exchange data on physical storage medium (hard drive, flash storage,
    etc.)
-   Set up a Linux box at each organization and use rsync over ssh to
    distribute data
-   Use a BitTorrent client with some form of automatic polling

The BitTorrent option doesn't have a lot of benefit if there are only
two sites participating. If you are looking at a larger number of sites,
you may wish to consider the next option.

### Private LOCKSS Network

In a lot of ways, a "private" LOCKSS network (as opposed to
participation in the "global" LOCKSS network) is similar to the ad-hoc
options listed above.

There will be some setup involved, and you may need to dedicate more
computing resources to it than the ad-hoc methods.

One advantage of LOCKSS is that a lot of thought has gone into handling
issues which you'll be dealing with yourself in some of the ad-hoc
methods.

It also benefits from having a catchy name. ;-) (albeit trademarked --
read on)

The [LOCKSS software](http://sourceforge.net/projects/lockss/) itself is
available under an open source (BSD) license. It's unclear if you need
any kind of license to use the LOCKSS name itself.

Inexpensive
-----------

### Take External Media Offsite

Get a few hard drives or flash drives, and instead of exchanging them
with another organization, place them in a safe deposit box or
(depending on policy/etc) have staff members store them at home.

Simple but not automated, and somewhat more feasible due to the likely
public nature of the data.

### Commercial Online Backup Services

These are perhaps the most generic "backing up any kind of data"
solutions. Your data is likely be have a different profile than
traditional "backing up everyone's Documents folders in my company", so
watch out for fine print in terms of "unlimited storage for a single
computer" plans. Your data may not qualify.

Some providers / services:

-   [CrashPlan Pro](http://www.crashplan.com/business/)
-   [BackBlaze](http://www.backblaze.com/business.html)
-   [Tarsnap](http://www.tarsnap.com/)
-   [Jungle Disk Business](https://www.jungledisk.com/business/)

Some online backup services make use of storage platforms provided by
other companies. See the next option for how you may be able to cut out
the middleman by using those services directly.

### Commodity Cloud Storage

There are a number of companies providing storage platforms supported by
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). You can use open source tools
to copy your data into the storage platforms, where the data is then
replicated to multiple physical locations.

Software:

-   [s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/s3cmd) -- Linux, Windows, OS X
-   [Cyberduck](http://cyberduck.ch/) -- OS X

(there are a huge number of software packages out there with support for
these kinds of storage platforms, both open source and not)

This option is perhaps the easiest to put a price tag on:

Yearly cost for 20 GB of storage:

-   [Amazon S3](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/): \~\$30 (\$0.125/GB/mo)
-   [Google Cloud Storage](https://developers.google.com/storage/):
    \~\$28.80 (\$0.12/GB/mo)
-   [Rackspace
    CloudFiles](http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/files/):
    \~\$36 (\$0.15/GB/mo)

Providers may have specials for new users (X gb/mo free for the first Y
months).

Your per-gigabyte costs may decrease with these providers once you pass
a certain threshold. There's at least one study which indicates you can
get better value from doing it yourself at certain levels of storage,
but your mileage may vary.

Pricing is very similar, so you may want to pick the software first and
the platform second -- unless you have a strong preference for/against
any of the companies in question.

Extremely Generic Conclusion
----------------------------

There are some creative ways to back up digital collections. Use what
works for you, start with the size you need, grow as you need to.

Thanks for putting thought into keeping your collection safe!

### Comments ###
* Raminta: Thank you so much Jeff!
* Chris Adams: Interestingly, AWS just started allowing you to trade-off access
frequency for an order of magnitude storage decrease:
http://aws.amazon.com/glacier/ would be \$2.40/year for an off-site
disaster recovery option.
* yitznewton: On an audio collection digitized in 2005, we did multiple copies:
portable HDD, archival DVDs kept at home, and spinning drive (first on a
workstation, later on a networked storage device). Which reminds me, I
have to get the DVDs back to my old jobsite...

Answer by MGallinger
----------------
Small institutional collections have a lot in common with robust
personal collections. Perhaps it would make sense to look at ways in
which practices for backing up personal collections (for example, an
off-site external drive or two on which your data is regularly backed
up) and see if they can be integrated into your institution's data
management practices. The challenge with this is that while it is a very
cheap alternative, real effort needs to be made to make sure that this
data doesn't get lost in your organization and that its management is
systematic and rigorous.

### Comments ###

