---
title: "Digital Libraries using audio indexing / identification / search by example?"
layout: default
---
Digital Libraries using audio indexing / identification / search by example?
=====================
I am wondering if there are any digital libraries offering search by
example for audio files, e.g. upload part of a music file and the
digital library recognizes the song and provides me information about
it? So, something similar to Shazam, but directly integrated in a
digital library.

stefan.at.wpf

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">digital-media</li><li class="tag">indexing</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I don't know if you consider it a "digital library", but the
[MusicBrainz](http://musicbrainz.org) project have a sister service
called [AcoustID](http://acoustid.org/) which uses an audio fingerprint
to look up metadata for a given audio file. The tooling and data around
AcoustID is opensource. So if you are building a digital library service
you could theoretically integrate into your applications. If you are new
to MusicBrainz it has been around for 12 years now, and its data is
widely used and supported by organizations like the BBC, LastFM and
Google.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: [chromaprint](https://github.com/lalinsky/chromaprint), the specific
fingerprint algorithm used in MusicBrainz is explained [in this
article](http://oxygene.sk/lukas/2011/01/how-does-chromaprint-work/). I
also wonder whether music libraries have experimented with using it.
* stefan.at.wpf: Thank you, I am more interested in something being officially a digital
library, like run by a voluntary organization or sth. like that.
MusicBrainz is a nice example, though.
* Ed Summers: MusicBrainz is a project of [Metabrainz](http://metabrainz.org/donate)
which is a non-profit organization run by donations and sponsorships. I
believe quite a few people working on the project are volunteers,
especially the people who enter metadata. In my opinion the term
"digital library" meant more in the pre-Web days, and means less and
less every day. I prefer to think of websites that offer services that
are "library like"...and MusicBrainz definitely fits that category. /me
gets off soapbox now :-)

