---
title : Example of crowdsourced audio/video transcription project?
---
Example of crowdsourced audio/video transcription project?
=====================
I know of many projects crowdsourcing the transcription of written
material (manuscripts, letters, diaries, etc), but I don't know of any
that are crowdsourcing audio or video transcription. Do any such
projects exist? Better yet, do any such projects exist that have
disclosed their software stack?

dsalo

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
I don't know of one specifically on crowd sourcing *transcription*, but
at the 2010 ASIS&T meeting, Gary Geisler presented on [Crowdsourcing the
Indexing of Film and Television
Media](http://asis.org/asist2010/proceedings/proceedings/ASIST_AM10/submissions/244_Final_Submission.pdf).

I seem to recall they were looking at stuff like where scene breaks
were, what characters were in each scene, characteristics of each scene
and stuff like that.

I don't know that it was true 'crowdsourcing', and I don't see any
mention of a site that they created to do the indexing, but they do
mention software called MovieBrowser (for which they reference [Ali, N.
M. & Smeaton, A. F. (2009)](http://doras.dcu.ie/14808/). They also
mention they used a modified version of [GLIFOS](http://www.glifos.com/)

...

For large scale crowdsourcing in general, at the 2010 Digital Curation
Conference, Chris Lintott gave the opening plenary, and in it he
mentioned that [Zooniverse](https://www.zooniverse.org/) had lots of
people, but needed more projects for them to do. I know they're more
focused on science, but you might want to [contact
them](https://www.zooniverse.org/researchers) to see if there were parts
that you could use of their infrastructure.

I'd also consider [contacting the folks at
reCAPTCHA](http://www.google.com/recaptcha/contact) to see where they
get the source material for their audio CAPTCHAs. As they started out
doing book OCR, I'd assume they'd consider helping with similar efforts
in audio/video.

### Comments ###

Answer by epoz
----------------
Have a look at [http://pybossa.com/](http://pybossa.com/) it is not a
transcribing project but can be used as the platform for making one,
from the About:

"a free, open-source, platform for creating and running crowd-sourcing
applications that utilise online assistance in performing tasks that
require human cognition, knowledge or intelligence such as image
classification, transcription, geocoding and more!"

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
Yes, they do exist.

So things like [dotsub](http://dotsub.com/) have been doing subtitling
of videos for quite sometime and could basicly be used as is. The .sub
format itself is a really simple way to keep timestamped text associated
with an audio or video file and these guys have a simple tool to do
that. There is also
[Soundcloud](http://nunncenter.org/ohms-enhancing-oral-history-online/)
which has time based annotation features that could be used for this
kind of thing.

There is also the [Oral History Metadata
Synchronizer](http://nunncenter.org/ohms-enhancing-oral-history-online/).
It is a really cool open source project that lets you sync
transcriptions with timestamped moments. They are currently working out
the details to build in crowdsourcing to the tool, so in that sense it
doesn't exist yet. That said, the folks working on the project are
[claiming that functionality will come later this
year](http://engagingplaces.net/2012/04/30/webwise-2012-managing-oral-history-collections-and-projects/).

Asside from this, their is at least one Zooniverse project that is a
kind of audio transcription. It has the coolest name for anything
around, [WhaleFM](https://www.zooniverse.org/project/whalefm), and they
have you identify and group like sounds. I believe that all the
Zooniverse projects are Ruby on Rails. A lot of their source code is [up
on their github page](https://github.com/zooniverse). If you wanted to
see their audio stuff I bet they would polish it up and share that too.

You might also be interested in this [post on visualizing oral
history](http://www.visualizingthepast.org/2012/04/visualizing-oral-history/)
that is full of links about some of the neat work going on in oral
history in this area.

Lastly, while it is not happening yet, I believe that the Storycorp
folks are looking to get some crowdsourcing transcription stuff up and
running as well.

### Comments ###

Answer by Chris Adams
----------------
I have not used
[http://www.universalsubtitles.org/](http://www.universalsubtitles.org/)
but they come up frequently in the open source community for subtitling
and translating conference presentations. The project is completely open
as well:
[https://github.com/pculture/unisubs/wiki/Dev-Center](https://github.com/pculture/unisubs/wiki/Dev-Center)

### Comments ###

Answer by Waldo Jaquith
----------------
What you're looking for is [Amara](http://www.universalsubtitles.org/).
Its received an enormous amount of funding by both the Mozilla Fondation
and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. [Its source is all on
GitHub](https://github.com/pculture/unisubs).

### Comments ###

