---
title : What are the reasons to continue to use physical library cards?
---
What are the reasons to continue to use physical library cards?
=====================
I recently visited the Library of Congress, and was issued a Reader's
card, complete with my own photo.

I was a bit surprised that such a large, world-class library would issue
a physical card, as opposed, to, say using an existing ID to confirm my
identity when entering the library. Especially in light of the fact that
I had to present a photo ID when getting my LOC Reader's card.

Issuing cards seems like just one more process and expense, and tracking
them seems like just one more piece of data to track in the computer.

What are the reasons for continuing to use physical library cards these
days?

Flimzy

### Comments ###


Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
The physical card is less important than a reliable way of linking you
to your account. For example:

I work in a public library. The circulations staff can manually check
out materials if you provide an ID that they can use to look up your
account by name and address. (Address is important; even in a small
suburb, there will be some overlap between names!) If someone has moved,
they presumably know their former address and we can go through the
process of updating that information as well. Most people don't want to
go through this process, though; it's much, much quicker to use a
self-checkout machine! The thing is, the machine can't read and
interpret every ID in the world. Instead, a physical card with a barcode
on it suffices to identify you to the machine. In theory, some of the
machines could even read a photo of the barcode on your smartphone, but
the library would still need to issue you that original exemplar.

A large national library is going to have lots of readers from all over.
Many will have similar names, may move between visits, may be from
countries with unfamiliar IDs, &c. &c. &c. It's much easier (and more
secure) to have a uniform photo ID that all the employees understand to
represent you and your specific privileges at that library. Also, if
you've moved or otherwise need to update your information, it's much
easier to prove that you're the Mr. So-and-So who used to live at 123
Cherry Lane if you have a card proving that you are the holder of the
account with the out-of-date information in it.

Other institutions that have libraries (e.g., academic libraries,
corporate libraries) don't usually issue separate library cards because
they will already have some form of universal ID (e.g., a university ID
or corporate ID) that it designed so that it can be used for that
purpose as well or another method of identifying people with access
(e.g., a signed letter from your supervisor, a librarian who knows
everyone in the building).

### Comments ###
* KatieR: Addition: What would young kids without a state issued ID use if there
weren't physical library cards? Student IDs don't work because there are
many home schooled or cyber schooled students out there.
* dsalo: Also a question of individuals without state-issued IDs. Not all such
are children!
* Gem: It's also pretty common in our library for a partner to pick up holds.
Unless you have prior written permission, you have to have a library
card with you to pick up someone else's hold. Just having a driver's
license would make this difficult since, presumably, the original card
holder would like to keep their driver's license with them.
* KatieR: @dsalo, I was thinking that but we require a state issued ID to get a
library card so that's why I specifically said kids. :)
* M. Alan Thomas II: @Gem: Ooh, we do that too. Good point!

Answer by dsalo
----------------
For the LoC and certain other heritage libraries, there's a small but
consistent amount of souvenir value to a reader's card.

### Comments ###
* Joe: OOhh.... LoC is a government institution, and if it has a picture on it,
I can use it to harass the TSA when I go through airport security! (I'd
like to point out that the University of Maryland is part of the state
government, therefore, a UMd student ID is a 'government issued picture
ID' ... yet, I got sent to the 'special groping line' ... it probably
didn't help that it was the 3rd ID that wasn't a driver's license I had
showed them)
* Flimzy: The LoC specifically prohibits getting a reader's card as a souvenir. Of
course I'm sure people lie about their intended use all the time, but I
still think that suggests the LoC isn't issuing cards for the purpose of
providing souvenirs.
* dsalo: Sure. It still happens. ;)

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I expect that the Library of Congress receives visitors from all over
the place. By giving you a library card, the registrar is converting
your random id from wherever-in-the-world to one that every security
person in the facility can easily recognize.

At our library, we are adding scanners this year that read smartphone
images of the library card, but we will still issue the physical library
card. I think one of the most endearing holdovers from the libraries we
grew up in is that the library card still exists. It is a badge that
says, "I read." It is a membership credential for one of the most
democratic institutions in the world. It is a rite of passage for a
school child. I find that people are proud to have a library card - this
is a marketing opportunity for libraries.

### Comments ###

