---
title: "What "due process" should a controversial book receive as a matter of policy?"
layout: default
---
What "due process" should a controversial book receive as a matter of policy?
=====================
Censorship can many times be attributed to ignorance about a particular
book or other artistic work. Situations can often arise where patrons or
municipal officials complain about particular work for being too
controversial, particularly in juvenile literature.

Rather than caving into complaints too quickly, giving the controversial
work its "due process" is potentially a more rational way of handling
the situation.

What sorts of *ad hoc* committees work best to make a decision in these
types of situations? What techniques can a library use to focus the
group down to make an objective decision about the work in question?

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">collection-development</li><li class="tag">censorship</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* KatieR: This question is very similar (but better worded) to this one:
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/762/whats-a-good-policy-for-dealing-with-book-movie-music-c-challenges
* jonsca: @KatieR I would agree it is a bit similar, that was not intentional, but
I think the final question is more focused.


Answer by Pam Henley
----------------
Speaking from school and public library experience, I'd start with the
original selector - the person responsible for the item being in the
collection - and a supervisor (department head, school principal). Every
item in a collection should be justifiable, according to selection
criteria already in place, so it shouldn't take a large committee to
defend, but having an item challenged can feel like a personal attack
and having a supervisor's support is imperative. Libraries of all types
should have procedures in place to handle this sort of situation; this
document would outline who is involved. Often it will include a
governing board (library board of directors, school board, etc) and may
outline the various levels of review and how the process is elevated to
the next level when not resolved. Having a procedure in place helps keep
things objective, but can leave room for compromise if necessary.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: It may be notable that this answer (which I support) rejects "\*ad hoc\*
committees" as specified in the question as being appropriate; indeed,
such a committee may be seen as an arbitrary vehicle for implementing
censorship and result in a successful First Amendment challenge in the
case of a government-run library. (I'm afraid that I don't have the
citations in front of me, but there have been such cases.)

Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
**I am not a lawyer. This is not legal advice.**

This article covers some of the issues;

[Anne Klinefelter, *First Amendment Limits on Library Collection
Management*,102 LAW LIBRARY JOURNAL 343
(2010)](http://www.aallnet.org/main-menu/Publications/llj/LLJ-Archives/Vol-102/publljv102n03/2010-21.pdf)

It seems to me that actions must be viewpoint neutral in the light of
the mission of the library. Having written properly policies and
procedures may be necessary; I would expect that principles of
administrative law would apply.

*I would strongly suggest talking to someone in Counsel's office before
preparing a policy.*

### Comments ###

