---
title: "Are libraries allowed to purchase media directly from Amazon and the like?"
layout: default
---
Are libraries allowed to purchase media directly from Amazon and the like?
=====================
Are there any restrictions that would prevent libraries from ordering
latest DVDs directly from Amazon and offering them as part of the
library collection?

Laura

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">purchasing</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
First sale would cover the use of DVDs for lending, so I see no reason
this would present difficulties.

Beware of playing DVDs as library events, though. That's covered by
"public performance rights," which can be something of a can of worms.

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
This is pretty much the same thing as buying something at a bookstore to
add to the collection -- which we do sometimes. I wouldn't be surprised
if there are some libraries out there that have policies specifically
stating that material purchases can only come from certain vendors. I do
not work in such a library and we will buy items from Amazon or a
bookstore if it is an item we need ASAP or isn't available though one of
our vendors. Also, I have not seen anything on Amazon stating that
libraries cannot purchase items from them.

Last year, [Warner Home Video imposed a 28 day waiting period for
libraries](http://www.libraryjournal.com/lj/home/892402-264/warner_home_video_imposes_28-day.html.csp)
buying their new releases. I haven't heard anything since about this but
it is another reason why libraries might purchase directly from Amazon.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
We buy DVDs from Amazon at our library, but Amazon policy generally
limits us to 3 copies. It gets us started while we wait for copies from
our usual vendor. The copies we get from our usual vendor, though, are
devoid of any "extra content" so they are bibliographically different
from our Amazon copies which creates a cataloging issue. All roads lead
to complaints from members, alas.

We have had no issues with markings on DVDs, but I did buy an audio book
from Amazon once which had clear markings on every disk: "Not for sale
to libraries." I was unable to add it to the collection.

### Comments ###

