---
title : Are any libraries or archives officially seeding torrents of open material?
---
Are any libraries or archives officially seeding torrents of open material?
=====================
[BitTorrent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent) is a very
efficient and network-friendly way of sharing large files.

When a library or archive makes available digitized holdings, data sets
or something similar of course it will make them available for download
from its web site, but I wonder if any are also seeding torrents so that
the files will be available, reliably, over BitTorrent.

If so, what materials are being made available this way? How was the
decision made to use this delivery mechanism? Has it been effective in
helping distribution and lowering bandwidth demands? How is the seeding
implemented?

(I do see that there is a [Gutenberg
torrent](http://www.gutenberg.org/wiki/Gutenberg%3aThe_CD_and_DVD_Project).)

wdenton

### Comments ###
* wdenton: I can't create a bittorrent tag but this question needs one, so perhaps
someone can create it?
* KatieR: Is a BitTorrent tag really needed or would something like "torrent" be
better and more widely used?
* wdenton: That would be fine.
* Ashley Nunn: This is just going to be a list question of places that do such a thing,
if any. Is there anything specific you are looking to know about the
process or anything?
* wdenton: I edited the question to add some more specific points.


Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
Ibiblio maintains [Terasaur](http://terasaur.org/), providing torrents
of content you'll find in their catalog.

### Comments ###

