---
title : Are there libraries that use only electronic library "cards"?
---
Are there libraries that use only electronic library "cards"?
=====================
This is a followup to my [earlier
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/842/199). Are there any
libraries that only issue electronic "cards" to patrons?

I know many libraries have ways to look up a patron record if their
library card is not present--home phone number, address, name, whatever.
I'm not asking about libraries that have an alternate means to look up a
patron's account. I'm curious if there are any libraries that strictly
don't even offer a library card, and do everything electronically.

If there are such libraries, what were the motivations for the switch?
And what credentials must a patron provide to borrow books? And lastly,
has the experience proved successful?

*Side note:*

I'm not asking about super tiny libraries, like the one in the city I
grew up (with a population of 500 people), where the librarian knew me
and everyone else personally, so there weren't even library
"accounts"--we just wrote our names in a small book at the desk, next to
the title of the book we were borrowing.

Flimzy

### Comments ###
* Joe: If they're going to be assigned a patron number, you need a way to give
it to them until they've memorized it. That's what the card's for.
Unless they're going to immediately type it into the cell phone to
store, or you use some other number as a default that they might've
already remembered (remember those universities that thought it was a
good idea to use SSNs?), you're going to need to give them
\*something\*. A card's much more convenient & durable than a piece of
paper.


Answer by Fisher
----------------
While this isn't a fully-functional electronic card, the Boston Public
Library does issue
[eCards](http://www.bpl.org/general/circulation/ecards.htm) for any
Massachusetts resident. The potential patron fills out the [registration
form](http://www.bpl.org/contact/form_ecard.php) and is issued an eCard
number. The eCard, however, is not a full library card. It allows use of
the digital catalog (overdrive in this case) and online databases. It
does not allow for physical check out. It can be converted into a full
library card, which is a physical library card.

### Comments ###

