---
title: "Selecting books about computers"
layout: default
---
Selecting books about computers
=====================
Can anyone suggest good resources for selecting books to purchase for a
medium-sized public library about computing? I have a reasonably good
knowledge of the subject and have an impression of what's important and
what the community might like, but I was curious if there were recent
canonical lists of good books to have in this area. Thank you!

paracaudex

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">collection-development</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by wdenton
----------------
Is one way to think of it that you subscribe to all online access to all
books in certain series or from certain publishers, for example [Safari
Books Online](http://my.safaribooksonline.com/) from O'Reilly? Ebook
collections make it easy to provide access to the latest things, and
also mean old books don't need to be weeded, though that can be a
problem when people need a good book about WordPerfect 5.0 or the like.

### Comments ###
* Joe: I can't find it (I think it was on here), where someone commented that
they specifically kept some non-ebook computer books on basic use &
troubleshooting ... for those people having problems getting to the
ebooks in the first place.
* Joe: found it ... it was in response to questions about [weeding technology
books](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/a/819/62)

Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
The ACM maintains an [eBook
catalog](http://learning.acm.org/books/ebooks_catalog.cfm) for their
subscribers, covering recent print+electronic titles from many
publishers.

### Comments ###

Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Computer stuff changes so fast, I don't know if canonical is possible.
However, when I am trying to develop a part of the collection, one thing
I do is look to see what other libraries have:

-   Go to the World Catalog and do an advanced search
    ([http://www.worldcat.org/advancedsearch/](http://www.worldcat.org/advancedsearch/)).

-   Search for *dd:004*\* as a keyword, and limit your publication dates
    (maybe 2010-2012) and your format (books). This will give you all
    the books with Dewey Decimal classification in the 004s published
    since 2010 sorted by relevance.

-   Scroll through to see what looks like it would be appropriate for
    your community.

-   Repeat for the 005s and the 006s to see the rest of the computer
    stuff.

-   You can sort by date if you want to see what is newest or limit
    yourself to just 2012.

-   You can add other keywords if you want to see something in
    particular (like *iPad* or *networks*).

-   You can also add more digits to your *dd:* search to narrow your
    results (*dd:005.13*\* will give you books on programming languages,
    for example).

If you have access to FirstSearch (another interface for searching the
World Catalog which requires a password), you can sort by number of
libraries rather than relevance. I do not know what algorithm OCLC uses
to establish relevance, but a list sorted by relevance is similar to the
one sorted by number of libraries, so number of libraries is part of the
equation. I think the open version rolls multiple editions of a title
into one record.

This trick will work for other areas of Dewey Decimal of course, but
note that your *dd:* input must be at least 3 digits. So searching for
*dd:33*\* will **not** give you all of economics. And if you leave off
the asterisk, you will not get results that are cataloged with digits
behind the decimal (so *dd:005* will only give you items with exactly
005 in the record, where *dd:005*\* will give you 005, 005.1, 005.74,
etc.)

If you are in acquisitions, your jobber probably also has helpful lists.
For example, we order most of our books from Ingram, and I can see a
list of the top 200 books for the past year for Dewey 000s (or the top
50 for the last quarter). I can also browse by BISAC category or Dewey
number sorted by publication date (not a testament to the quality,
though sometimes reviews or review citations are available in the item
record).

### Comments ###
* paracaudex: Very helpful, thank you!

