---
title : What are the most effective practices for holding job interviews at academic libraries?
---
What are the most effective practices for holding job interviews at academic libraries?
=====================
At the university library where I work we have been discussing how to
improve what happens when we interview candidates for a librarian
position.

Our usual routine:

-   a short presentation, perhaps a mock in-class instruction session
-   interview with search committee (2 hours or so, same questions for
    everyone)
-   lunch with someone not on the committee
-   a tour and some introductions
-   meeting with university librarian

The lunch is with someone not on the committee for two reasons: to allow
the candidate to freely and confidentially ask questions, and so that
the committee members are not unduly influenced by personal and casual
conversation.

We're looking at how to improve this into a better, richer, more
fruitful time for both the candidate and the committee, and I would like
to know what works most effectively at other academic libraries or
similar institutions.

wdenton

### Comments ###


Answer by Michelle Hudson
----------------
At our university, the plan for the interview is largely directed by
what HR says needs to happen for each candidate (benefits meetings,
meetings with supervisors), but departments within the library have
preferences.

My supervisor doesn't have any candidates give presentations, for
example, and the only people who meet with or interact with the
candidates have specifically been invited to do so. Another group has
candidates give presentations and invites everyone to give feedback.

In either case, the candidates meet with a LOT of people -- potential
departmental colleagues (both librarians and support staff), the search
committee itself, others outside the department who are invited to have
a discussion, faculty members, supervisors, the University librarian...
Candidates talk to at least 30 people in the course of the day, and I
think that's good, if exhausting.

I think the most valuable parts of interviews I've participated in (as
an interviewee and as a search committee member) are the dinner the
night before with selected members of the search committee and the time
alone with the direct supervisor and the supervisor's supervisor, if
applicable. It's great to get one-on-one time with different levels of
management as they often have different perspectives of the library and
the university as a whole.

The dinner invites casual and personal conversation and I think that's
important -- why would I want to work somewhere if I didn't enjoy
conversation over dinner with my future colleagues? Maybe not every
candidate thinks that, but work/life in libraries is skewed --
librarians collaborate intensely on projects throughout the year, and to
do that successfully, a candidate should probably fit the organizational
culture on a personality level as well as a professional level.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jason Griffey
----------------
At MPOW (medium sized regional university) librarians are considered
faculty, so we have potential candidates meet with the faculty in the
library as a group...it is a good opportunity to talk about tenture,
expectations, etc. As well, we have an open-to-everyone meet and greet
in the morning with coffee and snacks prior to the formal presentation
by the candidate, to give everyone in the library a chance to interact
with the potential hire.

Our process is a 1.5 day affair, starting with dinner after arrival in
town with the Dean of the Libraries and the Assistant Dean. The actual
day of the interview is structured like:

-   Coffee and snacks
-   Presentation, almost always a "how would you make things better"
    sort of talk
-   Meet the faculty
-   Tour of the library
-   Lunch with Committee
-   Meet with Department position is in
-   Tour of campus
-   Meet with Dean to discuss benefits, etc

It's a full day, and exhausting for everyone involved...but necessary.
Hiring a new faculty member is like proposing marriage...it's possible
you'll be working with this person, if they get tenure, for the reest of
your life. Choose wisely.

### Comments ###

