---
title : Social media and people with disabilities
---
Social media and people with disabilities
=====================
With the ability to communicate more widely through social media, there
are more opportunties to reach various groups. What is an effective way
that your library uses social media to engage people with disabilities?

Deborah Mould

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Deborah, this a great question. However, I think it would be even better
if you generalize it a bit. Asking about common techniques and proven
programs rather than just a list of what everyone's library does will
make it more useful for future readers.
* Deborah Mould: I'd really like to know specifically about social media, but @jonsca the
points you raised are also interesting and I'd like to have a seperate
question for those as well.
* jonsca: In the [faq](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/faq\#dontask) under the
"Don't ask" section, it mentions questions where every answer is equally
valid. I think this is one of those cases (not singling you out in
particular, as there are a lot of questions that may need to be revised
in this regard). Seeking a specific answer will help you get the
information for which you are looking, and it will help future viewers
of the question who might find it in a search.


Answer by Ryan B
----------------
> With the ability to communicate more widely through social media,
> there are more opportunties to reach various groups.

The first thing to keep in mind is that a lot of social media sites
don't have the best accessibility. Your website is considered an
extension of your public entity, which is covered under the ADA - which
says your website must be accessible. So you might do a blast on
Facebook/Twitter, but due to not having full control over said
application you should also house the content on your site and ensure
*that* is accessible. Then link from the social media back to your site.

> What is an effective way that your library uses social media to engage
> people with disabilities?

If you have a special feature about your library, ADVERTISE it! Some
examples, you have a "new" computer with various assistive technology,
you are bringing in somebody for a disability-related event, you are
partnering with bookshare, NFB, etc.

### Comments ###

