---
title: "Ways to assess use of periodicals in library?"
layout: default
---
Ways to assess use of periodicals in library?
=====================
How does one evaluate the use of periodicals in the library? Because of
the lack of circulation data, it's difficult to determine which ones of
our periodicals get read often and which ones don't. Is there a way to
do that?

Benjamin Girard-Bond

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Print periodicals, electronic ones, or both?


Answer by Fisher
----------------
My library allows magazines to be checked out, including the current
issue. This allows for some circulation data, though it doesn't account
for in-house use. When evaluating our magazine collection for purchasing
decisions, we attached a small 'survey' to the cover of each: basically
if a patron used it, they were encouraged to make a tic mark or initial
it so we could count this use alongside circ stats. This was somewhat
labor intensive: making, cutting out & attaching the tally papers as
well as collating the data afterwards--but that's a good task for a
volunteer or student!

At least one ILS I've worked with do allow for some kind of non-circ
tallying system of in-house use so that data will all live in the same
place.

A library I once worked for would use the above whenever they found
their magazines not shelves--and they encouraged patrons to NOT reshelve
items for this reason (that and misshelving!).

### Comments ###

Answer by Matt Stephenson
----------------
-   Empty **Return Everything Here** shelves
-   Clipboards
-   Interns


### Comments ###
* Joe: Ahh ... interns ... is there anything they can't do? (well, obviously,
there are legal restrictions, and we're still trying to train them to
phase through walls, but other than that ...)

Answer by Kode
----------------
I don't know if this helps but wouldn't the more popular material show
more physical wear than unused issues? For example we keep People
magazine on the shelves but it doesn't circ often. We can see it's
popular though because the issues are visibly worn after just a couple
weeks. Other magazines like American Philatelist don't show much wear at
all but once they're a month old they circ like any other item.

### Comments ###
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Some are made better than others though. For example "The Atlantic" is
bound better and uses better paper than "People." (I'm willing to bet
"People" is read more but I don't think the physical wear is a good
measure.
* Joe: You could also run into issues that they'd appeal to different groups,
and some groups of people simply take better care of the materials.
* Jeanne Boyarsky: Good point Joe!

Answer by Michelle McLean
----------------
Our LMS has a module that allows us to scan items to indicate use. As
virtually no-one returns magazines to the shelf once they have finished
reading them in the library, staff first bring them back to the circ
desk and scan them, thus recording their in-house use.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
Staff/volunteers who re-shelve magazines keep track with a printed
checklist/spreadsheet. This data is compiled by the Serials Librarian,
and the information is used as a selection tool. It's very useful when
patrons ask why a subscription was dropped.

### Comments ###

