---
title : Public keyboards hygiene
---
Public keyboards hygiene
=====================
What is the best way to keep public keyboards clean?

Do the staff or a company do this, or does your library have a policy of
regular recycling/replacement of keyboards?

Deborah Mould

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: "Does your library" type questions are not a good fit for SE. Mind you,
if you take this part out, and perhaps elaborate on what sort of things
you have tried, etc, this will still be a workable question.


Answer by Peter Turner
----------------
I worked for a while as tech support / computer janitor for UW Madison
and we replaced all our keyboards with [Kensington Anti-Microbial
Keyboards](http://www.kensington.com/kensington/us/us/p/1431/K64406US/antimicrobial-washable-keyboar.aspx)
Now I see they make them washable, that's pretty cool. Probably the best
bet as keyboards are notorious fungus hoarders.

### Comments ###

Answer by Brian
----------------
We clean the keyboards each morning before we open with a Lysol/Clorox
wipe or a disinfectant sprayed on the cloth which we've done for awhile.
Doing this hasn't affected the keyboard at all. Usually, the janitor
does this but if he doesn't get to it, I generally do it (IT Department
Head). We replacement keyboards when needed which doesn't happen to
often. Usually it's general wear and tear.

### Comments ###

Answer by mara
----------------
At both the Grinnell College library and the Grinnell (Iowa) Public
Library, I saw dispensers for disinfectant wipes so each user could
clean the keyboard first, or their hands afterward. At my library, we
have a few folks who will ask for a wipe, and we do wipe down the Ref.
Desk keyboards between shifts when someone has a cold. It does not seem
to affect the performance of the keyboards.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joe
----------------
'Best' has a few qualifiers ...

If you want the most hygenic, there are keyboards made specially for
hospitals and the like. They tend to have a solid surface, so there's no
crevices for things to hide and they're waterproof they can be soaked in
disinfectant. Some have a way to disable it so that they won't type
while you wipe them down. Unfortunately, they're quite expensive
(\$200-400 each), so not quite what you want for libraries if you don't
need to.

Your next alternative is keyboard covers -- you can then strip them off
& clean them when needed, and they protect from the occassional spilled
drink. The unfortunately wear out faster than the keyboard, and some
people really don't like the feel of them. You also have to get ones
that fit the keyboards you have, or replace the keyboard to one that you
can get covers for.

And then there's just wiping the keyboards down each morning with
alcohol wipes and/or making them available when needed. (when I worked
for a university computer lab, there were some pretty disgusing
keyboards ... like the time when someone found a stack of chicken wing
bones stacked up above the keys, and the genteral grime associated with
it)

### Comments ###

