---
title: "Establishing guidelines for topical displays"
layout: default
---
Establishing guidelines for topical displays
=====================
With the change in seasons, public libraries often have topical displays
with such headlines as `"SUMMER"` and `"BEACH READS"`.

I'm certain that each library will have its own methodology for
selecting books for said displays, but I'm more concerned with ways to
establish policies for such displays in general.

What are some of the standard guidelines regarding selection of these
books? Can these displays be used for other purposes, such as an
opportunity to "market" poorly circulating books to the general public?

jonsca

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">public-libraries</li><li class="tag">circulation</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
I've worked in a couple of public libraries, and neither had a written
policy for displays. We utilize thematic displays and individual easels
spaced throughout the collection. Thematic displays are usually topical
and will include as wide a variety of items as possible. A gardening
display will have everything from container gardening to planning a
landscape, and it might have DVDs, books, magazines, and flyers for an
upcoming program. While it is always rewarding when someone takes an
item from a display, it is especially rewarding when someone excitedly
tells you they didn't know you had ...

The purpose of a display is to get the viewer to slow down and engage,
and perhaps find something new. It is essential that the items on
display be attractive. Poorly circulating books generally make poor
displays. We increased the circulation of our kids' nonfiction section
by 22% this past year largely by putting books on easels throughout the
area. Now kids can easily find the dinosaur books, the truck books, the
animal books, Garfield, etc. Those displays empty out faster than any
others in the library, but it isn't just the display books that are
going. Once a kid has found where you hide the Lego books, they will
often check out every one.

I am disinclined to do displays that are political or controversial. A
favorite book display in some libraries is the annual banned book
display, and I have to say it is one I do not favor. First of all, the
books were rarely banned, they were only challenged and perhaps removed
from a single library here or there. More than this, the underlying
message is that we want to alert the public that someone somewhere
wanted them not to be able to read these books. It says to people that
banning or challenging books is bad. The truth is, whether or not we
would ever consider the removal of a book from our library (since we
follow a defensible collection policy), we welcome challenges - we may
not enjoy them, and we don't want to deal with a new one every week, but
we do want to know what the people in our community are worried about.
Additionally, I think this display advertises to people that there may
be materials in the collection of which they would disapprove. While we
welcome challenges, we don't want to spend a lot of time on challenges
for materials that people would not have ever picked up had we not waved
the materials at them.

### Comments ###

