---
title : What makes a successful digital scholarship centre?
---
What makes a successful digital scholarship centre?
=====================
Where I work, at the library for a large research university, we're
investigating the creation of a digital scholarship centre. Some
examples:

-   Brown's [Center for Digital
    Scholarship](http://library.brown.edu/cds/)
-   U Michigan's [Duderstadt Center](http://www.dc.umich.edu/)
-   Rice's [Center for Digital
    Scholarship](http://library.rice.edu/about/departments/CDS)
-   Emory's [Digital Scholarship
    Commons](http://web.library.emory.edu/disc)

We don't have anything like those on our campus, but there is a growing
need for something. Of course, it would be expensive, and some might
question if such a thing should be in the university's library or
somewhere else.

How have university libraries been successfully involved in such
projects? I'm looking for answers covering anything from the creation of
a centre, to the managing of it, to collaborations, advocacy, research
partnerships, services, etc.

[DiSC: Developing a Digital Scholarship
Commons](http://www.cni.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/08/cni_disc_smith1.pdf)
(presentation by Joan Smith and Rick Luce, from CNI 2011) gives a lot of
detail about how Emory created their centre, for example.

[If this question is too broad I'm happy to refine it.]

wdenton

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: This is a very broad question and is going to be tricky to answer
definitively because there is just a lot of things that you are asking
about. Any chance you could refine it? It's okay to ask multiple
questions if you need, on this topic!
* wdenton: Related question from Digital Humanities Questions & Answers last year:
[Models for DH services in the
library?](http://digitalhumanities.org/answers/topic/models-for-dh-services-in-the-library)
* Trevor Owens: Scholar's Lab http://www2.lib.virginia.edu/scholarslab/ at UVA would be
another important example to mention.


Answer by dsalo
----------------
Like almost any big-ball-of-mud exercise -- and research libraries have
several of these on the books, from scholarly communication to
research-data management to DH/DS centers -- success hinges on clearly
defining success criteria up-front. There is no single, foolproof recipe
for a "successful digital-scholarship center," and defining success as
"success" (which happens all too often) is of course tautological
tail-chasing.

What Emory is doing so extraordinarily well (and I was at that CNI
presentation and am glad you cited it) is systematically answering the
question "what do existing centers accomplish, and how much of that do
we want to emulate at Emory?" Unsurprisingly, they found different
answers at different centers. Some are explicit about being (and
helping) grant-chasers. Some are just as explicit about being
collaboration spaces, or tech and project-management support. Some are
dev centers. None of these accomplishments is intrinsically more
worthwhile than any other! They're all good! So for new centers looking
for what to do, it's all in the goal-setting and assessment-planning.

If I were in your shoes, I'd interrogate that "growing need" and set
goals based on it, preferably without even invoking the "center" concept
-- I find that prematurely reifying a service leads to unhappy results.
So...

-   Digital folks having trouble getting grants? Why, and what can the
    library do about it?
-   Everybody complaining about space? What could the library free up?
-   Missing tech? Could the library purchase and/or host and/or support
    it?
-   Missing skills? Who in the library has those skills and can teach
    them?
-   Missing support structures? What could the library fill in? (This is
    a particularly common problem among grad students, I find.)

Be frank about this. If the real problem is "digital {whatever} is sexy
and we're jealous," then that's the real problem; dancing around it
because it's kind of a dumb problem won't help.

Now, stepping off my soapbox to return to your actual question, it seems
to me that several of the centers you list started as idiosyncratic
fiefdoms designed by and/or around one or two very bright and energetic
people. So another way to tackle the planning process is to look around
locally for the right horses to bet on, building an infrastructure
around their needs. This is risky (good academic racehorses have a habit
of switching stables), and it can be politically unpopular in libraries
with a "must serve everyone equally" orientation, but it certainly
simplifies determining assessment criteria! It may also endear the
library to university administrators looking for ways to keep and/or
poach "top talent."

tl;dr version: I don't know what a successful digital-scholarship center
looks like; I believe they come in lots of shapes and colors. I DO know
what an unsuccessful one looks like: a vaguely-conceived,
under-resourced, unassessed bandwagon-jumping exercise run by one
isolated low-totem-pole employee from a broom closet.

A digital-scholarship center that's not *that* has a tolerably good
chance of doing something useful.

### Comments ###
* AaronC: Thanks for writing these thoughts down. I've become confused when the
answer to a "growing need" is a person, a committee, an informal group,
a formal group, a formal group with resources (a center?!), or something
bigger. I think most often the approach (that I've seen) is the
racehorse method, but then sometimes I see four horses on the track and
I'm just emerging from my broom closet, bewildered--and there is never a
finish line in sight. Which I suppose restates your thesis: "success
hinges on clearly defining success criteria up-front"
* dsalo: That's a really good point -- project versus service orientation matters
in this game! Libraries are so used to services (and the
more-unchanging, the better) that the more nimble mindset necessary to
create and manage a project portfolio can be hard to instill.
* Joe: For some of the projects I've worked on, there's some sort of a steering
committee composed of the people who would be directly benefiting from
the project (in my case as I'm building data systems for scientists,
it's 100% composed of scientists). There are members who have some
limited experience in managing/building data systems, but their role as
a steering committee is solely to set scope & priorities -- they draw on
advice from us programmers (estimates of feasibility & time costs), but
they're the ones who make the final decisions to set scope / features /
priorities.

