---
title: "Can someone suggest a good open source document management system?"
layout: default
---
Can someone suggest a good open source document management system?
=====================
I am in the process of building a web app and I know now I will need an
electronic library of some sort external to the web app, so I am now
looking for an open source library to plugin in to the webapp. Can
anyone that has any experience in this arena please suggest some
options. [Greenstone](http://www.greenstone.org/) seems to be the best I
found so far (and the only one that seems to be built with to serve
solely as a digital library), but I do not want to commit myself to just
one. \
**Edit:**\
After some research I have found that what I actually want/need is a
[document management
system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_management_system) with
built in faceted search and the ability to manage and audit documents
and probably relate them in some way. At this point I have only been
feature skimming but I have also found: [Knowledge
Tree](http://sourceforge.net/projects/kt-dms/),
[E-Prints](http://wiki.eprints.org/w/Main_Page) and 1 or two others that
seem to match most of my criteria on one way or another. Though
Knowledge tree claims to have an open source edition, I have been unable
to find it so far to download for testing.

Dark Star1

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">software</li><li class="tag">digital-archiving</li><li class="tag">web</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* anarchivist: What do you mean by an "electronic library" or "digital library"?
* Dark Star1: I guess what I am after (after doing some research) is a document
management system.
* Joe: It really depends on just what sort of functionality you need to to do,
and how large it's going to need to scale. There's everything from
[OODT](http://oodt.apache.org/), [Fedora](http://fedora-commons.org/),
[DSpace](http://www.dspace.org/), etc. You could even use a cloud
service like [S3](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/) if you need it mostly just
for storage. Or you could use something like
[iRODS](https://www.irods.org) as middleware to access multiple storage
systems.
* Trevor Owens: It would also seem to depend on what you mean by documents here. If it
is really a lot of text docs something like dokuwiki might do the trick
too. http://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki
* Dark Star1: @TrevorOwens pdf docs with images, and the possibilities to add short
videos in the future.


Answer by ND Geek
----------------
Check out the [Fedora Repository Project](http://fedora-commons.org/).
It's an open-source digital repository with significant support from a
number of institutions. Their "About" page lists that they have users
from all these industries:

-   broadcasting and media
-   consortia
-   corporations
-   government agencies
-   IT-related institutions
-   medical centers and libraries
-   museums and cultural organizations
-   national and public libraries and archives
-   professional societies
-   publishing
-   research groups and projects
-   semantic and virtual library projects
-   university libraries and archives


### Comments ###
* Dark Star1: Thanks. I was just looking at Knowledge Tree which seems to fulfill most
of my reqs and is php based, apparently it has an open source community
edition which I can't get at so far.
* AaronC: @DarkStar1 to elaborate Fedora Commons is more of a middleware
application. There is another project called Islandora which is a Drupal
module that hooks up with Fedora Commons and can be customized to enable
faceting (Solr), create simple and complex relationships (Fedora
relationship ontology, RELS-INT/EXT... RDF essentially).

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Don't ask much, do you? ;)

It might make the most sense for you to look at [curation
microservices](https://confluence.ucop.edu/display/Curation/Microservices)
and incorporate the ones you think you need into your system. You'll
still need to bolt on search/browse separately, but as suggested above,
Blacklight should make that feasible.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jakob
----------------
This a a rather broad question which may lead to several interesting
hints and discussion but no concrete answer. What makes a "good" system
is subjective unless your clearly name criteria on which to judge. If
you look for a [document management
system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_management_system)(\*) you
may look for a wide bunch of functions such as storage, retrieval,
metadata management, integration with other services... I bet that you
don't want the all-in-one system suitable for every purpose (which may
be Fedora) but for a dedicated, easy-to-use system that best fits your
needs. For instance faceted search is a property of retrieval only: you
can get faceted search with a search engine which does not manage any
digital objects at all (maybe the discovery interface
[VuFind](http://vufind.org) fits your needs?.

Can you please try to further describe your particular needs and re-edit
the question, including the title?

Some comments on your current list of criteria:

-   faceting
-   full-text ~~searching~~ indexing & highlighting

This are properties of the retrieval and discovery interface. What do
you mean by full text highlighting? Result snippets of full text as
known by Google?

-   open source

Clear criteria unless you distinguish open source and free software.

-   semantic relations
-   tailored for DMS and lightweight (e.g. not drupal...)

Very buzzy and fuzzy, I have no clue what you actually ask for.

* * * * *

(\*) I added a link to the Wikipedia article to clarify what we are
talking about. Unfortunately the Wikipedia article "document management
system" does not clearly tell the difference and relation to terms like
[institutional
repository](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutional_repository),
[publishing
repository](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repository_%28publishing%29),
and [digital library](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_library).
Don't trust Wikipedia definitions unless you have edited them! ;-)

### Comments ###
* AaronC: What I was referring to re: semantic relations is an extension of
metadata languages to show relations between documents and the metadata
that describes the document. Common methods include using RDF as a
foundation for creating taxonomy and ontologies which allow for simple
inferencing. Lightweight means something that is not resource intensive
and can happily live on VMs. I hope those terms aren't that buzzy.
* Jakob: "Relations between documents" is one thing but "metadata that describes
the document" is pleonasm. RDF is used in this context but the technical
level is far too low, one can also have semantic relations with another
technology (and map to RDF if needed).

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
I'm going to give something of a contrarian answer - there isn't one and
there shouldn't be! The problem is that the different parts of the stack
change at different speeds. You generally want your backend store to
change very slowly, so you know the data you've got is safe. Your ingest
processes tend to be big phases of development followed by long phases
of maintenance and use. Your access systems tend to need to change more
rapidly and constantly, as you react to your users' needs. I suspect
that this is why the open source solutions tend to focus on these three
phases separately, so that each is modular and replaceable, rather than
one monolithic system which can do everything and anything.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: I fully agree. A document management system (DMS) consist of several
components, which can also be used independently. Good software should
loosely couple independent component (service oriented architecture).
Therefore there is not a single good DMS. There might be, however, a
good software distribution that packages several DMS components!
* AaronC: Great points. I think these are of course some of the foundational
concepts which support more recent trends of curation microservices, and
the build-your-own repository ideology. However there are certainly
circumstances where the management and support of say 3 modular
components would not be desirable for a particular project. I'll give
two examples: the OP appears to be prototyping a web app, and may just
want something quick n dirty; and my own case where I want something
temporary for small internal projects.

Answer by Dark Star1
----------------
After much searching and deliberation I have settled down to testing
four to five document management systems (DMS). I do agree with some of
the replies that I have read about a DMS not being a monolithic solution
but I do think that a DMS should, by default, imply some basic core
functionality, such as faceted searching.

Now I know some people want would want me to explain this but I will
summarize by just saying "library." In any case I am currently testing
OpenKM, Knowledge Tree Community Edition, Epiware, Alfresco Community
Edition (once I can get it to run) and I am thinking to add Fedora
(formerly DuraSpace) to the mix of tests. Some of these use the Solr and
Apache Lucene search technology, and Solr I know is an excellent search
engine.

### Comments ###
* Dark Star1: Found Alfresco to be the best of anything I tried.

Answer by Michael Lubin
----------------
Have you tried DocFinity from Optical Imaging Technology? I use it for
my finance department. It includes work flow solutions to streamline AP
and AR functions. It is easy to use.

### Comments ###
* Dark Star1: Thanks for your answer. I already have committed to working with
Alfresco. Which is quite a good system

Answer by Benedetta Grimmelli
----------------
Initially we had tried [OpenKM](http://www.openmk.com), but reached a
number of documents (actually a few hundred thousand) we found ourselves
in trouble. Fortunately we found
[LogicalDOC](http://www.logicaldoc.com), a very similar software with
regard to the graphical interface but more performant on large amounts
of documents.

### Comments ###

