---
title: "How to catalogue zines?"
layout: default
---
How to catalogue zines?
=====================
Books and periodicals, etc. are relatively easily catalogued in an
academic setting. What about alternative materials, such as zines? Is
there an easy way to catalogue those sorts of materials?

Note: For the purposes of this question, assume I am talking about zine
publications.

Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Sure there are methods (cataloging rules) depending on the specific type
of material. You should better ask for a particular "non-standard"
material instead of asking for a whole exercise in cataloging anything.
* Ashley Nunn: I mention zines in my question - I suppose that wasn't clear enough. I
can edit to make it clearer. :)


Answer by Jakob
----------------
A friend of mine once worked in the Berlin *Archiv der Jugendkulturen*
(archive of youth culture), which has the [largest collection of
fanzines](http://www.jugendkulturen.de/fanzine-bestand.html) in Europe
(\>20.000). I don't know, how they are cataloged and its no academic
library but a special library without interlibrary loan, so cataloging
might be limited. For patrons, however, a large collection with simple
bibliographic records is often more useful than a small collection with
complicated and incomplete bibliographic records that only exist because
some libraries either want a perfect record (in their own system of
course) or none ;-)

### Comments ###

Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Cataloguing records for zines have the same standards as the rest of
materials in an academic library. Various libraries maintain different
levels of cataloguing based upon various factors such as:

-   how they are accessed (would a detailed record provide greater
    retrieval or will users just go to a specific area on a webpage or
    library to get copies);
-   staffing and space (is there a backlog of materials and a lack of
    staff, where can we store it whilst awaiting cataloguing);
-   what records are already available through a union catalogue, or can
    we copy catalogue using a template?

It depends upon the amount of material, the time frame and what purpose
the collection has been acquired for, such as a donation/bequest, for
primary academic referencing or as material for researchers. This will
provide a basis for how detailed a record will be, although in most
examples on Trove, a fairly basic record seems to be the norm:
[Biblio-curiosa](http://trove.nla.gov.au/work/152751668?q=biblio-curiosa&c=article&versionId=166473085),
[The inter active review
magazine](http://trove.nla.gov.au/work/28255657?q=inter+active+review+magazine&c=article&versionId=34206901),
[Kilter: the journal of
GothicArtChicago](http://trove.nla.gov.au/work/26281097?q=kilter+gothicartchicago&c=article&versionId=31661415)

### Comments ###

Answer by Stephen
----------------
You may want to contact someone at the Minneapolis Community and
Technical College Zine Library to see if they would be willing to share
their processes with you:

[http://zines.minneapolis.edu/](http://zines.minneapolis.edu/)

### Comments ###

Answer by Joshua
----------------
At Michigan State University, we catalog zines more or less exactly like
we catalog other more conventional publications. We'll catalog them as
books or serials - determining which method to use on a case-by-case
basis. I do most of the zine cataloging myself. I catalog them in MARC
using AACR2 (for the time being, anyway - RDA is right around the
corner). So they're just as "easy" as other materials, in a sense.
However, I do avail myself of certain non-required treatments, like
adding summary notes to enhance keyword access and genre headings to aid
in collocation of zines based on genre. I find these treatments
important to circumvent some of the value-laden language of controlled
vocabulary subject terms (for example, making sure that someone
searching for queer zines can find them, despite the fact that that's
not language that would occur in Library of Congress Subject Headings).

For other libraries, considerations such as time and the availability of
copy cataloging may be a factor, so they might consider cataloging zines
as a collection, rather than item by item. Still others may do item by
item cataloging, but forego MARC and AACR2 to use a homegrown database.

Jenna Freedman at Barnard College has worked with zines, including
cataloging, for several years. This chapter of hers is helpful for
thinking about zine cataloging:

-   Freedman, Jenna . “AACR2-bendable but not flexible: cataloging zines
    at Barnard College.” Radical Cataloging: Essays at the Front. Ed.
    K.R. Roberto. erson, NC: McFarland & Co, 2008.


### Comments ###

