---
title : What has been found to be the most effective alternate term for "digital preservation" when communicating beyond the library and archives community?
---
What has been found to be the most effective alternate term for "digital preservation" when communicating beyond the library and archives community?
=====================
The term "digital preservation" can be a turn-off when there is a need
to describe, sell or make the case for implementing this kind of work.
Curation, digital stewardship, permanent access... Which terms have
proved more successful in describing the activity without boring the
recipient into switching off?

Paul Wheatley

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: Another problem with the term 'digital preservation' is that general
audiences tend to think it also covers digitisation (i.e. preserving an
object digitally) whereas digital preservation 'professionals' generally
insist that it should only mean preserving digital media. Clearer
terminology would help.


Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
The term [Digital
Continuity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_continuity) has been
promoted by many, including the UK National Archives. I'm not trained as
an archivist, but it seems to align quite nicely with the [continuum
model](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Records_life-cycle#Continuum_model)
of record keeping, which I'm sympathetic towards.

The only downside is that the concept of continuity seems to explicitly
exclude [forensic approaches to digital
preservation](http://www.dcc.ac.uk/node/9219), but this might not be
much of a problem as in many cases it is the continuous care model we
want to encourage (rather than hoping you've accidentally saved all the
information you need in a form the forensics tools can recover).

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
The key issue here is audience. For example, "permanent access" seems to
resonate rather well with folks in science communities who are currently
talking a lot about open access. That is, in that situation, messages
about digital preservation hang off their existing focus. Similarly,
"long term access" seems to a popular way to describe preservation too.

Digital curation seems to be the most problematic, in that in online
discourse it has come to mean selecting and sharing links to things you
think are interesting. See discussion on [What is the difference between
digital preservation and digital
curation?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/135/what-is-the-difference-between-digital-preservation-and-digital-curation)

In contrast, "digital stewardship" has seemed to have some resonance as
a combination of the long term nature of the term preservation with the
active management components of curation. (To this end, see [Digital
Preservation, Digital Curation, Digital Stewardship: What’s in (Some)
Names?](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2011/08/digital-preservation-digital-curation-digital-stewardship-what%E2%80%99s-in-some-names/)).

With all this said, there is a community of professionals already that
uses the term digital preservation to describe what they do. In this
respect, continuing to use the term digital preservation for
communication between practitioners seems to make a lot of sense.

In summery, I think it's best to think abo using different terms that
resonate with particular audiences and realize that each of these terms
comes with it's own context sensitive baggage.

### Comments ###
* AaronC: Good example re: "permanent access" and knowing your audience! I would
add that curation is just a ridiculously loaded word given its context
in the life sciences (and others?), industry (content curation), and
museums/libraries/archives--all of which use it in slightly different
senses.
* Bill Lefurgy: Agree that putting the focus on access and use makes sense. That's
really what most people care about. But it's incumbent on preserving
(stewarding?) institutions to be explicit below the fold about what it
takes to ensure ongoing access.

Answer by AaronC
----------------
The terms used for describing the digital preservation activity should
reflect the vocabulary of your client. My advice is to avoid using
curation, stewardship & preservation in the noun sense and if you must,
slip them in to your conversation as verbs. Talk about what you do, not
about the systems and frameworks and theories.

If you are trying to "sell" someone on digital preservation
(specifically, DP) set the stage and explain what digital preservation
does, not what it is. Ok, here is my example (longwinded) elevator
pitch; critique at will:

"The problem is that digital media is not stable--it has a shelf life
just like anything else. The bits of a digital file have a physical
representation somewhere, like your hard drive or a disk array. We can't
just let this stuff sit, or it will go bad eventually. They call that
bit-rot. It's a real thing! Think about all those AOL cds floating
around from the 90s. Do you think they are all readable today? So just
like grocery stores have insanely complex inventory systems for managing
the shelf life of food stores, libraries and archives have to come up
with strategies to manage stores of digital data. But digital data has a
couple advantages which sometimes make us forget that it is not a stable
media. You can create immediate and exact duplications of data, you can
nearly instantaneously transfer data, you can transmute data from one
kind to another, and more than one person can hold the same data on
their e-reader at a time. These are the primary reasons that redundancy
has become an industry standard for digitally preserving our
information; but redundancy is only the foundation of a data
preservation strategy! Digital media has a host of threats that digital
preservation strategies can help mitigate... here's my card."

### Comments ###

Answer by dsalo
----------------
Honestly, I have the best luck with a fairly simple transference: "I
take care of digital things like web pages the same way libraries have
always taken care of books."

This engages people's warm-fuzzies for libraries while giving them a
minimally accurate sense of what's going on.

It does feed the misconception that EVERY LIBRARY KEEPS ALL THE THINGS,
but oh well. No metaphor is perfect.

### Comments ###

Answer by Eleonora
----------------
Neil Thomson, former Head of Data and Digital Systems at the National
History Museum, uses "**Digital Sustainability**" (I am starting to use
it myself and see the reactions):

> We have formed a Digital Sustainability Group. This was originally
> called a Digital Preservation Group, but we decided that that name
> gave the impression that is was only concerned with data for which the
> main purpose had been fulfilled — like a paper archive. However, we
> recognised thathere needed to be active management of current data in
> order to fulfil the aim of ensuring that the data will be continuously
> available into the indefinite future.

The whole interview is really interesting:

[http://www.dcc.ac.uk/community/interviews/neil-thomson](http://www.dcc.ac.uk/community/interviews/neil-thomson)

### Comments ###

Answer by Butch Lazorchak
----------------
I'm partial to "Digital stewardship" as I see it drawing on the ideas of
Environmental Stewardship with all the associated warm fuzzies that
entails. Beyond the positive correlative benefits, the digital
preservation/curation/continuity/stewardship community could do worse
than to model our approach on what the environmental community has built
over the past half-century.

[Everyday Choices: Opportunities for Environmental
Stewardship](http://www.epa.gov/environmentalinnovation/pdf/techrpt.pdf)
(PDF), a 2005 report from the the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
lays out ways to encourage environmental stewardship as part of everyday
behavior.

I'll fully admit that [green-ness](http://www.greenerchoices.org/) has
become (in some ways) merely another decision-point for conspicuous
consumption, but I'd consider it success to see the "digital
preservation-ness" of various decisions considered to the same
widespread degree.

### Comments ###

Answer by Peter Cliff
----------------
Can't help but wonder why no one uses "Digital Conservation".
Conservation is a function widely understood in Libraries, it is pretty
much the same thing as we're doing for bits and bytes... This doesn't
answer the question though as I've never used it in conversation. Well,
except to my neighbour who looked doubtful - mostly because she couldn't
see the value in the digital, but in a manuscript it was obvious.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: I wonder if this is frowned upon a little as it sounds a bit old
fashioned compared to a term such as Digital Continuity for example.
* Peter Cliff: Old fashioned is a benefit in some sectors... ;-)

