---
title: "How should archives decide between creating logical or forensic disk images of drives on computers accessioned as part of personal papers collections?"
layout: default
---
How should archives decide between creating logical or forensic disk images of drives on computers accessioned as part of personal papers collections?
=====================
The [emerging workflow for bringing in born digital media to an archival
collection](http://www.dlib.org/dlib/may12/lee/05lee.html) seems to be
converging on creating forensic disk images, that is bit-for-bit copies
of the entire disk. This sort of copy would capture forensic traces of
previous use of the contents of the drive.

There is considerable value in these kinds of copies, but they also have
the possibility of making those offering their materials to an archive
feel rather exposed. In general, individuals giving their papers to a
library have had the ability to review exactly what it is they are
handing over. The possibility to read overwrite sectors of disks can
creep out a potential individual offering up their papers.

In contrast to forensic disk images, there is the possibility of
creating logical disk images. Instead of being a bit-for-bit copy, these
images are simply copies of the contents of the directories on a disk.
The logical image captures the organization of the disk but does not
capture the considerable additional information that a forensic image
would capture.

Given these differences, in what cases should archives go with the
logical images vs. the forensic ones? On the one hand, the forensic
disks seem to be more in keeping with not changing the object and in a
sense with the ideals of original order. On the other, the agreements
between those offering their papers to an archive frequently involve
discussing what's in and what is out. How should archives go about
weighing these different values in their decisions to create forensic or
logical images?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: I don't think forensic imaging will capture \*everything\* about the
disk: for example in cases where overwritten data is in fact not
completely overwritten, and is recoverable by looking at the physical
disk. Disk images will capture the partition table, file allocation
tables and data partitions irregardless of the operating system--which a
snapshot of the visible filesystem as a directory will not capture. So
perhaps your question should also ask whether keeping the physical disk
is important. I'd also note that it's not necessarily an either/or and
you could do both.
* Trevor Owens: Good point, it doesn't capture everything, but a forensic disk will
capture content of sectors of a disk marked as empty that actually still
contain data. That said, I think your question about keeping the disks
themselves is also an interesting question worth asking in it's own
right :)
* anarchivist: I'd also add that "forensic imaging" is somewhat of an imprecise term,
as you can create a forensic logical image. Roughly speaking, imaging
can work at several levels - at a low physical level (e.g. flux
transitions recorded by a [KryoFlux](http://kryoflux.com), at the level
of sectors interpreted to a particular encoding scheme, at the level of
file systems or partitions, or at a logical level. There are several
"in-between" categories as well.


Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
It's very tempting to think that we should save everything, but for two
reasons we really shouldn't.

​1) Economics: Our ability to produce information will outpace our
ability to store it. David Rosenthal does a fantastic job breaking down
the costs of digital storage in a number of posts on his blog (e.g.
[http://blog.dshr.org/2012/05/lets-just-keep-everything-forever-in.html](http://blog.dshr.org/2012/05/lets-just-keep-everything-forever-in.html))
In short, although the price per gigabyte will continue falling, we will
produce data at a faster rate. Therefore, digital repositories that
commit to saving everything will have to commit increasing amounts of
their budgets to purchasing storage.

​2) Ethics: As Trevor said in his questions, most donors have little
idea that deleted files remain on their disks until they are over
written. Even when they are overwritten, because of the way computer
storage works, traces of deleted files can remain in the slack space. I
would argue most donors are not agreeing to give files that they had
deleted.

Archivists work with shelf-space and budget constraints. They also
discard portions of accessions during processing and restrict access to
other parts. I don't imagine these practices will disappear with mature
born-digital archives. Logical images should be the norm in digital
archives.

Forensic images might appear to offer the advantage of better
representing the original workflow, but with the random writes, defrags,
and rewrites of modern storage hardware, I wonder how useful that might
be.

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: Good point about the perspective of the donor. It does seem important
for donors to understand and agree to forensic imaging of their
donation.

Answer by anarchivist
----------------
I think it largely depends on the age of the material. While storing a
full sector image of a contemporary 500 GB hard drive, it's probably not
going to be terribly useful if you're only interested in obtaining user
data.

However, if you're imaging older floppies or optical media, the
likelihood of obtaining a useful logical image is likely going to be
lower unless you can be certain that your imaging application and
hardware can interpret the encoding system, file systems, partition
maps, etc. on the media.

The other issue is that containerized logical imaging formats (like
AccessData's "Custom Content Image" [AD1] format, used by FTK Imager and
Forensic Toolkit) are proprietary and usually cannot be used outside of
their creating application.

If you want to use a similar mechanism to the logical imaging process,
you can use a tool like [Curator's
Workbench](http://www.lib.unc.edu/software/) or [Duke Data
Accessioner](http://library.duke.edu/uarchives/about/tools/data-accessioner.html),
or if you simply want to package assets for transfer, you could use
packages that comply to the
[BagIt](https://wiki.ucop.edu/display/Curation/BagIt) specification.

### Comments ###

