---
title: "What is the difference between ISBN-10 and ISBN-13?"
layout: default
---
What is the difference between ISBN-10 and ISBN-13?
=====================
There seems to be two types of ISBNS for every book: ISBN-10 and
ISBN-13. I wonder what differences are between them, and in what cases
to use which? Thanks!

Tim

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">publishing</li><li class="tag">identifiers</li><li class="tag">isbn</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by mgkrebbs
----------------
The original ISBN (International Standard Book Number) specification of
1970 defined a 10-character identifier for books (ISBN-10). In 2007, a
successor specification defined a 13-character identifier (ISBN-13). The
latter was created because of a need for compatibility with other
international trade identifiers (like UPC), and because numbers were
running out and additional ones would be needed.

ISBN-13 is partially compatible with ISBN-10. If a book is assigned an
ISBN-10 number, then there is an equivalent ISBN-13 defined for it,
which is "978" followed by the first nine digits of the ISBN-10 code,
followed by a single check digit. For such books, the publisher normally
prints both codes in places like the title page verso for the
convenience of users who may still be using ISBN-10, and haven't fully
upgraded to ISBN-13 usage. At some point the ISBN-10 numbers will be
exhausted and new format ISBN-13 codes will be used, which will start
with "979"; those codes will not have any ISBN-10 equivalent.

More infomation is available at, for instance, [Wikipedia's ISBN
article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number).

### Comments ###

