---
title: "How to prevent books from becoming dirty due to being touched?"
layout: default
---
How to prevent books from becoming dirty due to being touched?
=====================
I found that my print books tend to be dirtier than others', in the
sense that the side of the books, where you can use your hand to quickly
flip through different pages, are often darker and have non-uniform
colors. My hands are not dirty often. But I sometimes use pencils and
erasers while reading books。

What techniques do libraries use to keep books protected from becoming
dirty from people touching them?

Tim

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Tim, I made your question a bit more general so that it would be of
greater use to professionals in the field rather than library users.


Answer by Simon Spero
----------------
Assuming that the discoloration is uneven, and only occurs where the
paper is touched, then the best way to prevent discoloration is to wash
your hands before touching the books, to remove grease and other
possible contaminants.

> Most books are not museum objects: their purpose is to be used and
> read.The handling of books, however, provides opportunities for
> accidental damage.
>
> Handle books only with freshly washed hands. Most of the dirt on book
> covers and pages is accumulated grime from oily fingerprints. While
> invisible initially, finger grease becomes all too visible as it
> oxidizes and collects dirt.Wearing white cotton gloves for handling
> rare bindings is a good preventive measure, but turning fragile or
> brittle pages with gloves may cause damage and is not advised.

[American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works,
Caring For Your Treasures -
Books](http://www.conservation-us.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=page.viewPage&PageID=626&E%3a%5CColdFusion9%5Cverity%5CData%5Cdummy.txt)

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Adding to this: The apparent freshness of library stock is a function of
weeding and (where circulation warrants) replacing books in poor
condition.

Answer by Jane Nearing
----------------
This could be useful in determining patterns of use!\
 **Dirty Books: Quantifying Patterns of Use in Medieval Manuscripts
Using a Densitometer**\
 by Kathryn M. Rudy

"Early users of medieval books of hours and prayer books left signs of
their reading in the form of fingerprints in the margins. The darkness
of their fingerprints correlates to the intensity of their use and
handling. A densitometer -- a machine that measures the darkness of a
reflecting surface -- can reveal which texts a reader favored. This
article introduces a new technique, densitometry, to measure a reader's
response to various texts in a prayer book." DOI 10.5092/jhna.2010.2.1.1
[http://www.jhna.org/index.php/past-issues/volume-2-issue-1-2/129-dirty-books](http://www.jhna.org/index.php/past-issues/volume-2-issue-1-2/129-dirty-books)

Nuns sometimes made little decorative ovals of paper to place beneath
their thumbs as they read through their prayer books, etc., but I cannot
remember if those objects had a specific name.

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
It is also worth pointing out that even if you were talking about Rare
Books, the best option is just to ask people to wash their hands and
then limiting access to particularly fragile or particularly rare
objects.

One of the other options, having people wear gloves, is one of the worst
things you can do to take care of the books. People lose their sense of
touch and are far more likely to rip pages in a book.

If you are interested in discussion of this see [Misperceptions about
White Gloves](http://archive.ifla.org/VI/4/news/ipnn37.pdf).

### Comments ###
* Simon Spero: (or at least take the gloves off when touching pages)

Answer by user656
----------------
I recommend digitizing the images and allowing patrons to view the
images rather than the physical book unless there's a compelling
research need to view the original

### Comments ###

