---
title : What aspects of authenticity should libraries and archives be attending to in digital preservation activities?
---
What aspects of authenticity should libraries and archives be attending to in digital preservation activities?
=====================
I'm interested in a comprehensive set of related notions of authenticity
of digital objects in the context of digital preservation. In this
sense, I would be curious to know how we should be thinking about
authenticity in a forensic sense, a diplomatics sense, an archaeological
sense, in terms of bit level integrity, and whatever other senses that
those working on digital preservation issues feel it is necessary for us
to attend to.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Ed Summers: That's kind of an expansive question :-) Maybe rather than asking how we
"should" be thinking about authenticity it would be better to talk about
examples of how we currently work with authenticity in digital
preservation systems?


Answer by Eleonora
----------------
I am not an archivist, but the definition for authenticity you often
hear from archivists is the following:

"An authentic record is one that can be proven to be what it purports to
be, to have been created or sent by the person purported to have created
or sent them, and to have been created or sent at the time purported".

(Also quoted in
[http://www.ijdc.net/index.php/ijdc/article/download/113/100](http://www.ijdc.net/index.php/ijdc/article/download/113/100),
that is also a good discussion of misinterpretations of this concept by
one of the most reliable professionals in this field).

In practical terms, my understanding is that (and I would like to be
corrected in case) the archive acquires at deposit time the available
evidence of what the object that is being accessioned - but it does not
try to establish its authenticity in an archaeological / forensic sense.
Authenticity in archival terms means that the archive is responsible for
the object still remaining "what it purports to be" AFTER it has entered
the archive - if it was a fake to start with, this is not the archive's
problem, but it needs to be protected from falsifications of any kind
while it is within the archive itself.

Of course digital archivists I have worked with have tried to transfer
this notion to digital objects, this is just an example but a good one
because it builds on OAIS:

[http://www.research.ibm.com/haifa/projects/storage/datastores/papers/Auth\_Prov\_CamReady\_sent.pdf](http://www.research.ibm.com/haifa/projects/storage/datastores/papers/Auth_Prov_CamReady_sent.pdf)

In a general way, I find very interesting for this discussion the notion
of artifactual value:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital\_artifactual\_value](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_artifactual_value)

I will post again if I find anything more conclusive.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: The concept of ensuring a repository holds exactly what was submitted is
part of the Trusted Digital Repository Checklist. 4.1.5 "The repository
shall have an ingest process which verifies each SIP for completeness
and correctness."
http://public.ccsds.org/publications/archive/652x0m1.pdf For a digital
repository, that means a repository should have checksums of materials
taken while the producer controlled them and after the repository
ingested them. They should continue verifying the authenticity by
running regular checksums and comparing the values.

Answer by Andrew
----------------
I am an archivist and have been interested and thinking about
authenticity for a long time ;-) especially since I started working in
digital preservation. Authenticity and how to ensure it is maintained
across time is a crucial question for the archivist and not just for
those who deal with digital records.

The definition given in a previous reply here is the basic one most
archivists use but to expand it somewhat I think authenticity involves
other record characteristics of reliability (ie. it is what it says it
is), integrity (ie. it is complete and unaltered) and useability (ie.
the record can be retrieved and understood). Assuring these things means
that the record is authentic and will remain so. Note that this does not
mean the digital record must always be maintained in the original format
in which it was ingested into a digital archive, and it is particularly
important to note that authenticity is not saying anything about the
truthfulness, trustworthiness and veracity of the contents of the
record, only that it is what is was said by its creators to be and was
created by them in the context and at the time they say it was.

There was some a lot of good archivally-based work done on authenticity
and digital records by the InterPARES project at the University of
British Columbia (http://www.interpares.org/) and the project published
a lot of documents about the outcomes of the research. Look particularly
at InterPARES 3 which was specifically addressing digital preservation
and authenticity.

In the context of digital preservation ensuring authenticity is not
straightforward. In my experience it involves making sure all the
recordkeeping and contextual (provenance etc) metadata is tied in some
way to the record for as long as it is in the archival system (can be
part of the record, can be in a database but permanently linked to the
record), ensuring that there are rigorous controls on access to the
records, ensuring that there are no unauthorised or unseen changes to
the bit level integrity of the record (its fixity), and, critically,
keeping a record of everything that is done to the record as it journeys
through the OAIS.

### Comments ###

