---
title:Converting our printed genealogies into digital form
---
Converting our printed genealogies into digital form
=====================
Our genealogy society has seven 900-page printed volumes, published in
the 1870s and 1980s-1990s. The font is typewriter-like, which does not
work well with OCR. We own the publishing rights, and have experimented
with tearing apart individual volumes to feed through a sheet-fed
scanner. The results are good for creating an image PDF but not for
text. As you can imagine, an OCR error which changes a marriage date
from 1868 to 1888 is significant, and unacceptable.

It's a simple matter to strip a book and create a book on CD as our
books go out of print. However, moving forward into the 21st century, we
would like to convert the information to digital form (a standard
genealogy database). After three years of trying to figure something
out, our only solution is to type the thousands of pages from scratch
into our genealogy database.

One thing which makes OCR particularly difficult is that the tails of
letters tend to be faint. That is, the bottom of the "g" in "Strong" is
OCR'd as a "q". Since this is the Strong family genealogy, that's a
problem! I can search and replace, but again the error rate remains too
high. With a typewriter font, my OCR program "cleans" nearly all
punctuation out, so no periods or semicolons remain.

We'd be grateful for any suggestions in converting our print books to
database form.

Edward Barnard

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/3/is-digitisation-on-topic
* Bill Lefurgy: This seems out of scope, as the primary concern is the mechanics of
digitization rather than preservation.


Answer by Nathan
----------------
Although this doesn't solve your OCR problem, you might have a look at
[LeafSeek](http://www.leafseek.com/). It's a free and open source
program for creating searchable online databases specifically about
genealogy. It's fairly robust and sports an attractive interface.

Regarding OCR, what resolution are you scanning at? I've had fairly good
results with typewriter documents by scanning at 300 PPI, sometimes 600
PPI. Also, the software you're using affects the output. ABBY FineReader
usually does a good job, but I tend to use Adobe Acrobat's ClearScan OCR
(I think it's in versions 9+). It also improves the image quality.

### Comments ###

Answer by LAG
----------------
It would be helpful to know about some of your "specs" - what you're
scanning at, which OCR software you're using, and whether you're running
high or low resolution images through that software.

One thing we try to keep in mind with our digitized genealogical content
is that having the content accessible online, even with an OCR error
rate, is still better than it sitting on a shelf in a single location.
We've also had fantastic success, both in uptake and in accuracy of
transcriptions, by asking volunteers to help transcribe our content
through Flickr
([http://www.flickr.com/photos/statelibrarync/sets/72157627124710723/](http://www.flickr.com/photos/statelibrarync/sets/72157627124710723/)).
Genealogists are hugely motivated! While a crowdsourcing project may be
down the road for you, keep that in mind as an option.

This sounds like a fantastic opportunity, and I hope you can move
forward with digitization and also preservation of this content.

Lisa Gregory State Library of North Carolina.

### Comments ###

