---
title:Evaluating large-format scanners
---
Evaluating large-format scanners
=====================
For archival purposes, we are planning to scan about a hundred years'
worth of physical records (from timecards to schematics) for our railway
historical society.

What is the best way to evaluate large-format scanners for this task?
This is a new front for us, so I am not sure where to start looking
beyond CDW.

warren

### Comments ###
* sean: You may get more mileage out of this question if you keep it specific to
digitizing a certain type of item (and spin off other items into
separate questions). As it stands, there isn't enough info as to what
exactly is being scanned, its condition, its restrictions.
* warren: @sean - the content being scanned is listed (timecards to schematics):
perhaps you can offer an edit improvement?
* warren: to the "off-topic" close voters, please see
http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/3/is-digitisation-on-topic?cb=1
* sean: – per the meta link, scanner recs look like they're heading off-topic,
but you can likely avoid that issue by making a question for each
content-type (show a picture of the railway timecards, their dimensions,
how you want the cards to be searchable or organized in a database, and
ask how you can make it so). likewise, schematics come in all kinds of
sizes and forms--if you present your archiving problem as a preservation
issue to be solved by pros, I think you'll have more traction.
* warren: @sean - I'm not looking for a rec, I'm looking for guidelines on how to
evaluate them :)
* sean: (can't @-link you for some reason) anyway, point taken


Answer by Exlucid
----------------
I am not sure exactly what the media that you will be working with will
lend itself too. I am also not quite sure what you mean by 'evaluate'.

That said, a number of digitization labs post their guidelines and the
scanners that they use for digitization. These documents might give you
an idea of what questions you should be asking based on your materials.

UNT has an excellent page up with examples of the scanned results
[here](http://www.library.unt.edu/digital-projects-unit/scanners-and-scanning-systems).

The CDRH in Lincoln also has a good guide (including best practices
links and readings)
[here](http://cdrh.unl.edu/articles/scanning_benchmarks.php).

I hope this helps!

### Comments ###

