---
title: "What hardware would make up a good starter set for digital media acquisitions?"
layout: default
---
What hardware would make up a good starter set for digital media acquisitions?
=====================
Organizations struggle with the question of "where do I start?" when it
comes to setting up a workstation for acquiring content from digital
media. Assuming something like a
[FRED](http://www.digitalintelligence.com/products/fred/) is out of a
small- to medium-sized institution's price range, what hardware would
make up the basic workstation. Keep in mind that most organizations will
have to deal with various sized floppies, zip drives, hard drives at a
minimum.

Courtney C. Mumma

### Comments ###
* Nicholas Webb: This is an excellent question, but I'd quibble with the "at a minimum"
in the last sentence. A cultural heritage institution accessioning
collections in arbitrary formats should have a full suite of disk
drives, but in an institutional archive that exercises (or whose parent
organization exercises) some control over the management of electronic
records, dedicating resources to rare or obsolete storage media may not
be necessary.
* Bill Lefurgy: There's also the outsourcing option--it might be cost-effective to share
another institution's equipment or even use a vendor.


Answer by anarchivist
----------------
In my opinion, part of the "where do I start?" question is whether the
organization intends to work through a backlog or focus on active
collecting. I realize at this point that it's likely to be a bit of both
for any institution that is truly beginning on acquiring assets off
media.

At an absolute minimum, I would recommend a USB write blocker such as
the [WiebeTech inline
writeblocker](http://www.wiebetech.com/products/USB-WriteBlocker.php)
(199 USD) or the [Tableau
T8-R2](http://www.tableau.com/index.php?pageid=products&model=T8-R2)
(\~299 USD). While it's possible that acquisitions may come in as bare
hard drives or drives pulled from existing machines, these can often be
easily attached to USB enclosures. Most USB write blockers will work
with the majority of USB mass storage devices, which allows for the most
flexibility - for example, you can attach USB flash drives, a USB flash
card reader, or USB Zip drives to a write blocker.

I also strongly recommend investing in some reasonably decent optical
drives to acquire CD-ROM/CD-R/DVD images. A tray-loading drive rather
than a slot-loading drive is preferable given the existence of smaller
size (3" and "business card") CDs.

I'd recommend having a reasonably good amount (8 TB+, depending on how
much you expect to acquire) of online, local staging storage. At my
place of employment, we've used a [Drobo
B800fs](http://www.drobo.com/products/business/b800fs/index.php) for
this, and with 8 X 2 TB drives, we have approximately 12 TB of usable
staging storage.

For acquisition alone, you don't really need a high-powered machine. In
fact, our acquisition machines are relatively have relatively low specs
(AMD Phenom IIx4 970 3.5 GHz processor, 4 GB RAM). Alternately, I'd
suggest consider acquiring (in addition, if resources allow) a
high-powered laptop to make field-based acquisitions go much easier.

If you expect to do a reasonable amount of processing of acquired
assets, you'll definitely want a higher-powered workstation, however,
but in our case it was cheaper not to buy a FRED and instead to buy a
high-end Dell workstation and add 48 GB of RAM. The specs for such a
machine largely depend on the type of processing you'll be doing,
though.

Any drives for obsolete or uncommon formats should be treated as extras,
in my opinion. While it might make sense to have a setup with floppy
drives, you should consider whether these media are worth the time and
effort to set up a local means to read them. This is equally true of
formats like Jaz cartridges, Syquest cartridges, etc.

In terms of useful accessories, I've mentioned them in line - things
like cables, adapters, card readers, etc. are all inexpensive and easily
sourced from your favorite online computer retailer.

### Comments ###

