---
title:Tool suites for archiving instant messaging history
---
Tool suites for archiving instant messaging history
=====================
Since the Library of Congress is archiving tweets, and the practice of
archiving IRC chatroom logs is common, well, why not.

The storage is not a problem - any DB or even CSV file should do.

But I've not seen a good tools to make these DBs nicely searchable and
accessible for non-tech people (everybody out there knows SQL? I think
no).

So, **what software could be used for providing useful access to such
archives?** Would be great if it could also provide anonymized stats for
researchers (i.e. replacing nicknames with numbers etc)

wizzard0

### Comments ###


Answer by raffaele messuti
----------------
generally irc logs are plain txt files, each row containing the
timestamp, the user, and the message.

when log is not provided by the irc server the solution is to use an irc
bouncer (another irc server sitting between your client and the irc
server) that logs for you. [znc](http://wiki.znc.in/Log) is pretty
simple to setup

since these logs are text files you can use any technology (even grep)
to search it.

i should recommend [omega](http://xapian.org/docs/omega/), a small cgi
based on xapian

### Comments ###
* wizzard0: Omega is good, but the IRC is not the only IM solution. I have hundreds
of megabytes of (mostly corporate) log files in different formats from
everything from Skype to Jabber to YM - and look for turning them into
something \*\*unified\*\*, usable & searchable.
* raffaele messuti: then you should write your own parser for these different logs, and use
elasticsearch. with few lines of javascript you can setup a search
interface. look at https://github.com/okfn/facetview/ if suit your needs

