---
title: "How can I extract data from an Amstrad CF2 disk to either a windows or linux based PC"
layout: default
---
How can I extract data from an Amstrad CF2 disk to either a windows or linux based PC
=====================
I have some old Amstrad CF2 disks that once belonged to my grandfather
with all his research on his family history and several war diaries that
he was writing with a view to publishing one day.

The Amstrad machine that he used to write the files on has long since
found its way onto a scrap heap some where.

I was wondering if there is any method by which I can extract the data
contained on the disks and transfer, convert and store on either a
windows or linux based machine. Both of which I have access to.

AvieRose

Tags: <out-of-date-format><data-recovery><vintage-computing><genealogy>

### Comments ###
* Bill Lefurgy: I really like these kinds of questions. Assuming they get good answers,
we can build up a great resource about dealing with all kinds of old
media.


Answer by Dmitry Brant
----------------
One way or another, you will need access to an Amstrad 3" floppy drive.
You may be able to find one on Ebay, or ask friends or colleagues if
they have a similar old Amstrad system.

If you do obtain an Amstrad floppy drive, you will need to build an
adapter to bridge it to a PC floppy connector on your motherboard.
Instructions are here:
[http://www.fvempel.nl/3pc.html](http://www.fvempel.nl/3pc.html)

(there was also a
[Slashdot](http://ask.slashdot.org/story/08/05/08/1523257/retrieving-data-from-old-amstrad-floppies)
discussion about this)

### Comments ###

Answer by Nicholas Webb
----------------
I'm from the US, so I'm not familiar with Amstrads in particular, but
most of what I wrote
[here](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/19/extracting-data-from-and-preserving-3-5in-floppy-disks-used-in-a-macintosh-se-1)
is applicable to any 1980s floppy-based personal computer.

Once you've acquired and connected the floppy drive, you can use a disk
imaging program (make sure you use one that specializes in 3" Amstrad
disks) to make disk images that you can mount on an
[emulator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_computer_system_emulators#Amstrad_CPC).
That way you can view the disk's contents even if they can't easily be
converted to a modern format.

If you can't find a drive, it looks like there are a few vendors in the
UK who specialize in extracting data from old Amstrad disks -- I saw a
few in the first page of Google results for "Amstrad CF2." You might
also look for Amstrad hobbyist forums and see if any of them can vouch
for a particular vendor.

If you go to a vendor, I recommend asking if they would be willing to
give you bit-by-bit disk images in addition to converting the files to a
modern format. That way you can be sure that you aren't losing any
significant properties or metadata during the conversion.

### Comments ###
* Nicholas Webb: I can't vouch for it as software, but [this
manual](http://simonowen.com/samdisk/cpc/) for a free Windows-based
Amstrad disk imager might also be helpful. It includes an alternate set
of instructions for making the adapter cable and notes that a 3.5" drive
can be hooked up to an Amstrad and used to copy data from the 3" drive
-- if a friend still has a working Amstrad, that might be the way to go.
Plus there are interesting crunchy bits about the different kinds of
copy protection some Amstrad floppies used.

