---
title: "Is there still an economic argument for preserving born-digital video at less than 4:4:4?"
layout: default
---
Is there still an economic argument for preserving born-digital video at less than 4:4:4?
=====================
Is there still an economic argument for preserving born-digital video at
less than 4:4:4?

Jerome McDonough 2004 argues for 4:4:4 (chroma subsampling) or nothing,
although he points out that this is sometimes dangerously expensive.

Since disk storage costs have gone down (and up) since then, what's the
rationale at this point, for keeping anything less than a "pristine" set
of workfiles?

For clarity, I'm referring to what George Blood 2011 describes as
"Digital Source, media independent 'file based'", and not things that
are recovered from tape or such.

Al Matthews

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">file-formats</li><li class="tag">born-digital</li><li class="tag">video</li><li class="tag">economics</li><li class="tag">satisficing</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* db48x: Do you have a link?
* Ben Fino-Radin: Excellent question, but when you quote experts and practitioners, please
try to include a link in your reference.
* Al Matthews: Right on both points. Links accessed March 5, 2013: McDonough 2004:
http://goo.gl/z19TF (conservation-us.org) Blood 2011:
http://goo.gl/di6LK (via georgeblood.com)


Answer by wizzard0
----------------
I may be wrong, but aren't modern lossless frame compression algorithms
(such as JPEG2000) providing better compression ratios than chroma
subsampling, without any loss of quality?

Sure you can compress chroma plane with less bitrate, that will still
preserve a lot more data than "dumb" subsampling, and possibly boil down
to smaller compressed size than subsampling, too.

The compression speed might be an issue, of course.

### Comments ###
* Al Matthews: Ultimately I cannot speak writ large about compression, but at least one
thread of concern about JPEG2000 is sketched here
http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2013/01/is-jpeg-2000-a-preservation-risk/
and strikes me as valid.
* wizzard0: That argument is completely valid. But even standard jpeg is able to
achieve the required compression ratio easily.

Answer by lechlukasz
----------------
There is no economic argument for preserving something **only because it
exists**. It depends fully on what is in that video.

I don't understand what you understand by **Pristine** (AFAIK it's the
main city of Kosovo province), but generally, the videos of high value
should be stored in the highest quality available. Example of such
videos are documentaries, reportages etc. When it comes to lower quality
videos, such as thousands of hours of video from the foreign trip, if
they were too low quality or too redundant to use for
documentary/reportage, storing them in reduced quality is better
alternative than deleting them.

For such materials as private wedding videos, when the people interested
in them no longer live, I think it would be enough to use heavy
compression and resampling and archiving them with family and temporary
tags. The may be of value for future anthropologiests or historicans.

As general rule, I would never trust someone who is going to describe
the whole complex process with one single sentence. Video has no value
because it is a video but because of its content. So the economic
criteria can be applied only when that value is taken into account.

### Comments ###

Answer by kvanmalssen
----------------
I am assuming that the George Blood paper you are referencing is
[Refining Conversion Contract Specifications
(2011-10-01)](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/81562888/George%20Blood%20LIbrary%20of%20Congress%20IntrmMastVidFormatRecs_20111114.pdf).
The section that covers "Digital Source (media independent "file
based")" video is dealing with what is also referred to as
"born-digital" video. These video files are born with specific
characteristics, chroma subsampling being one of them. These
characteristics should be considered significant properties of those
files, for preservation purposes. Chroma subsampling refers to color
compression, just as data rate refers to temporal compression. When we
talk about "uncompressed" video, we are usually talking about temporal
compression. When an archive chooses "uncompressed" as a target video
spec for reformatting analog material, they often still have color
compression, typically 4:2:2. We accept this degree of color sampling
because [the human eye is less sensitive to color than it is to
luminance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chroma_subsampling).

But since you referenced born-digital, the issue is slightly different.
For the vast majority of these files, the native chroma subsampling is
4:2:2, 4:1:1, or 4:2:0. There are only a handful of cameras on the
market today that are capable of producing 4:4:4 video, and those are
generally high-end, professional digital cinema cameras.

So, in short answer to your question, if we only accept 4:4:4 files we
will not be preserving 99%+ of the video content being produced today.
And that is unacceptable.

Digital video production and preservation has changed dramatically in
the past 9 years since Jerry MacDonough wrote about 4:4:4 video. At that
time, digital (file based) preservation of video was very theoretical,
and certainly not practical. That's changed to the point where today it
is the ONLY option for video preservation. And costs have dropped to the
point where it is feasible and realistic to create temporally
uncompressed video. But generally speaking, there is no advantage to
4:4:4, and few systems that support its creation at this stage. That may
change in the future, but for now, we are just not there.

### Comments ###
* Al Matthews: Your points are well taken. Indeed the video I had in mind was, in post,
ProRes 4:2:2 LT. I do think we possibly need to set aside the
distinction between "high-end, professional" cameras and the rest of
these. 4:4:4 appears at a glance to have about an, I dunno, \$25,000
entry point at present time, but I expect this to drop. Vis,
[here](http://wwsw.dslrnewsshooter.com/2012/12/29/a-late-christmas-gift-from-sound-devices-the-pix240-gets-free-4444-firmware-upgrade/),
or the Red Camera, etc. I do not mean that all cameras are equal, but
that high-end chroma schemes are becoming commonplace.
* kvanmalssen: If you are preserving ProRes or Red, I would suggest you have bigger
problems than chroma subsampling. Both are highly proprietary formats,
completely controlled by vendors who could yank them from the market at
any time. The manufacturer of the former has a tendency to do those
sorts of planned obsolescence stunts (i.e. not supporting Flash on
iphone/ipad). The latter is a manufacturer that requires you use their
hardware and software to work with the files. And the company has a lot
of competition these days. I would be more concerned about the
sustainability of these formats.

