---
title : What are some best practices when choosing news websites to link to when I want the links to work years from now?
---
What are some best practices when choosing news websites to link to when I want the links to work years from now?
=====================
Many external links to Wikipedia are now dead links. I know not to trust
Yahoo News, for example, since its links become dead links quite
rapidly.

InquilineKea

### Comments ###
* Donald.McLean: Just to make it clear, the reason why this question is off topic is that
it is what they call an "open ended list question". In general, it
should be possible for the question to be completely and comprehensively
answered in one single answer.
* Tim Post: Your question is definitely on the open-ended scale of things, but
perhaps not entirely off topic. If your question were more about a
concrete way to judge the worthiness of a source, in the context of
trying to ensure that links that you create now will still work just as
well years from now, it would be much more focused and objectively
answerable. The answers that you received were more along these lines.


Answer by lechlukasz
----------------
You should generally avoid **commercial** sites. They have a tendency to
close their articles for subscribers only, so is with the New York
Times. Even if some portal have free archive now, he can change that
policy in future. There's nothing more annoying than clicking in the
link and having the screen requiring to pay. This can even make your
visitors think your website is commercial and leave it for all.

The best way to refer to newspaper articles is to cite everything
crucial, and provide the source as bookmark, with optional link (but the
number of physical newspaper being more important, it is more likely to
survive than link).

### Comments ###

Answer by Christian Pietsch
----------------
Not sure if this is an option in your context, but the only way to make
sure URLs will not break and will still deliver the same contents in the
years to come is to archive them. There is a non-commercial, free
service that does just that: [WebCite](http://www.webcitation.org/). You
could then provide two links: one to the original source, and one to the
archive copy at WebCite.

If providing two links or just archive links is not an option, I would
second @lechlukasz in suggesting that non-commercial news websites are
more likely not to move contents behind a paywall. Perhaps
[WikiNews](https://wikinews.org/) is a safe bet for stable news links,
being an official WikiMedia project just like Wikipedia.

### Comments ###

