---
title: "How can I recover digital audio that was encoded on VHS cassettes around 1987?"
layout: default
---
How can I recover digital audio that was encoded on VHS cassettes around 1987?
=====================
I have some live music recorded in 1971 on reel-to-reel tapes that I
transferred to a digital format around 1987. I no longer have access to
the reel-to-reel tapes. At the time, there was no direct PCM recording
option on VHS machines (it came out soon thereafter). The recording
studio had a large box that took analog input and converted it to
digital and stored the digital signal on the video section of VHS
cassettes as a video signal that encoded the audio.

I do not recall the encoder but I have the VHS tapes and would like to
recover the audio.

How could I go about recovering the audio that is encoded on these VHS
tapes? What might have been the machine encoding scheme used and if
identified, how could this be decoded today?

WilliamKF

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: I've never encountered the format in the wild and as such won't hazard
on answer, but it seems likely that they are D-VHS tapes:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D-VHS
* WilliamKF: @Ben Fino-Radin Looking at the article you point to I see it states "The
format was introduced in 1998." so that cannot be the case since the
tapes were made around 1987. I believe the machine was a regular VHS
machine it was just recording video that encoded the audio from a
separate encoder device.
* Ben Fino-Radin: Right you are – sorry, only gave it a cursory glance.
* Donald.McLean: Is this what you're talking about?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PCM\_adaptor
* WilliamKF: @Donald.McLean Going from memory, I think that would be the one! Now how
do we decode it today?
* Andy Jackson: [This hobbyist site](http://www.myprius.co.za/my\_pic\_projects.htm) has
nice shots of the video and even, it seems, a hardware DIY option.
Alternatively, you could get the video off the cassettes as MPEG or
similar and then investigate options to decode the signal in software.


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
I think that your best bet is to do a web search for an independent
audio consultant. It would have to be someone who has been in business
since 1987 and has worked with that technology. Such a person would
either still have the appropriate equipment or would know where to get
it.

### Comments ###

