---
title : How many copies of preserved content are needed?
---
How many copies of preserved content are needed?
=====================
Assuming that preserved content is kept in archival storage on spinning
disks and that standard backup procedures are in place, is one complete
copy (separate from the backup) of the content enough, provided it is
stored remotely?

Bill Lefurgy

### Comments ###


Answer by Chris Adams
----------------
The conservative answer would be three copies so you have a tie-breaker
in case two copies disagree. If you have something like two online
systems and a tape backup, that should qualify and the issue is
particularly improved if you store fixities separately (also redundantly
and checksummed, of course) and thus have a high degree of confidence in
your ability to state whether any particular copy is correct.

The other issue, which might have been implied by your “standard backup
procedures“ note, hat I wouldn't trust any copy which hasn't been
recently verified: spinning disks avoid a significant class of problems
but they're still prone to bitrot and too many filesystems will silently
return corrupted data. Something like an object store or modern
filesystem (ZFS, btrfs, ???) which performs active scrubbing against a
separate fixity calculated from the original data is a *much* safer
proposition than, say, a neglected departmental backup server.

To summarize: yes, if both active copies are on modern storage systems
and you use a separate fixity checking system. No if you're forced to
rely on legacy storage since you'd have to devote significant resources
to auditing and validation and, presumably, rely on things like quorum
tests.

### Comments ###

Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
Chris Adam's answer addresses problems with backup media, but there is
also the issue of what is sometimes called "business continuity" -
getting your organization back up and running in the event of a
disaster.

When making business continuity plans, you have to carefully consider
various scenarios and whether or not it is even possible for the
organization to recover in a particular scenario.

So take a software development company. As long as most of the company's
key personel survive, the company can recover if it has good, recent
backups of its intellectual property (source code, customer data,
contracts, etc). Assume that the company's main facilities have been
completely destroyed and that all you have is whatever was off-site.

If all you have is a bunch of tapes that have to be retrieved and then
loaded somewhere, getting up and running again is going to take a
significant amount of time. If one copy of each tape is all you have,
and that one tape has a problem, then the organization is going to lose
precious data during a time when it can ill afford to lose anything.

The general rule that I go by is: three copies, one of them a local
backup that is used for simple recoveries of accidentally deleted files,
computer crashes and the like. The other two copies should both be
offsite and in separate locations. Or use a cloud based backup service
such as CrashPlan that takes care of the multiple redundant copies in
multiple locations details for you.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: For cultural heritage institutions, there's also the problem that most
organizations will cease existing before their data loses value. They
need to have firm plans with other organizations to transfer control of
their material.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
A common mnemonic for this is 3-2-1:

-   THREE copies
-   On TWO different kinds of storage media ("the cloud" counts as one,
    yes)
-   ONE offsite.

As a rule of thumb, it's not bad.

### Comments ###

