What is the ideal format to scan analog photos?
=====================
I have many photos taken on analog that I'd like to scan to digital form
to preserve them. Some will be scanned in using a flatbed and some using
a slide scanner.

What format (JPEG?) and resolution should I be aiming for ? I see
resolution on digital cameras has evolved quite fast. We've gone from 1
megabit to 15 megabit and that might increase further. Should I use just
JPEG or use a non-lossy format in parallel to accomodate further
developments ?

Furthermore, if these are family photos or the like, should anything be
done to adjust colours or would a simple scan be fine ?

James Poulson

### Comments ###
* Bill Lefurgy: This is an example of the kind of question relating to digitization that
fits this site, I believe.


Answer by Dmitry Brant
----------------
When scanning analog photos, the JPG format should be sufficient (with a
"high" quality setting; i.e. low compression). There's little point in
storing it in a lossless format. The reason why DSLR cameras save photos
in a Raw format is to preserve as much data as possible from the
original sensor for postprocessing. But since the analog photo is
already developed, there's no point in trying to squeeze out detail that
doesn't exist.

As for resolution, I've actually found that 300 dpi is quite enough. Any
more would be going beyond the "resolution" of the physical photo paper,
and wouldn't really add any more detail. (And 3000 dpi for slides)

You shouldn't need to adjust the colors, either (except to make sure the
scanner is scanning the photo correctly in the first place).

### Comments ###
* luser droog: +1 Quite true. You can't get any finer than the grain of the print.
* occulus: Depending on the type of photographic image being scanned, you'll want
to sometimes go beyond the resolution of the grain. For example, black
and white photography with deliberately visible grain: you want your
scan to actually capture the grain, and not to smooth it out.

Answer by gmcgath
----------------
You may want to digitize to a non-lossy format if you're going to do any
processing (e.g., cropping or color correction to adjust for scanner
issues) on the image. Editing a JPEG image can result in further
degradation. A big archive would keep a permanent lossless image for the
same reason, but that's most likely overkill for personal archiving.
Once you're satisfied with any adjustments you've made, you can archive
them to a high-quality JPEG file.

### Comments ###

Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
I have found that a DSLR with a low distortion macro lens will do a much
better job of digitizing photos than any scanner that an ordinary person
can afford. Scanners are fine for the big picture (and better than
nothing) but for preserving fine details, the DSLR does a much better
job. The secret is lots of light. The best way is to use a copy
table/stand, making sure that the arm holding the camera is rated for
its weight.

As to the color, I generally try a few different adjustments to the
color to see what happens and use whatever looks best - which is
sometimes not making any change at all.

For file format, JPG is fine, but use a high quality mode.

### Comments ###

Answer by woliveirajr
----------------
When you want to preserve something for a long-term period, you should
always consider the following topics:

1 - you don't know what you'll do with it in the future: if you have a
precise idea in mind of all the future uses, you can choose how to store
the images according to that uses. But very frequently you (or somebody
else) will want to make different uses of it, and then will blame who
"preserved" it for not taking enough care.

2 - so, if it's within your possibilities, put as much effort as you can
in doing it. If you have enough media storage, use as much resolution as
possible. 300 dpi might be good today, but also might be to few in the
future. One day someone though that VHS was more than enough to store
video, and today bluray is good, but it's not *that* much, is it?

3 - if some file format is widespread enough today, probably it'll be
easier to find something about it in the future. Everybody uses JPG, so
go the same way. With as much quality as possible (perhaps a 0.98
quality).

4 - If you were dealing with high-quality photos, you would have to
worry about color calibration. Every equipment has it's way to represent
color, and so your photos have one color, that will be transformed
slightly by the scanner, and your computer monitor will also show some
different colors when you view them. So, yes, if you're not using that
high-end calibrated scanner, you could do some color adjustment, or save
some color reference like the color profile...

5 - ... but I think you're talking about family photos, not spending
that much to scan them, etc. So you could scan some color reference to
help someone in the future, why not? Buy some scanner calibration sheet
(for example, [this
one](http://www.rpimaging.com/catalog/product/view/id/490), scan it, and
store a copy of it with each folder you're organizing your photos. That
way, in the future, someone who will be using your pictures will have an
idea on how *your scanner* represented the magenta, cyan, yellow...

### Comments ###
* jweise: The highest optical resolution of a consumer-level flatbed scanner often
far exceeds what is required to capture the full detail, and even the
grain, of a high quality photographic print. Therefore, one should not
use as much resolution as possible. Resolution should be sufficient to
capture the full detail of the original image, and if desired, the grain
of the emulsion.
* Donald.McLean: @jweise My experience with flatbed scanners has been that although the
advertised resolution does exceed the full detail of the original image,
that the optics make that resolution a lie.
* jweise: @Donald.McLean Do you mean, the advertised optical resolution, or the
advertised interpolated resolution? My point is that, for example, a
flatbed scanner with optical resolution of 9600 ppi is overkill if used
at that resolution because 400 ppi is usually sufficient for printed
photographs, and the file size will be much, much smaller.
* Donald.McLean: @jweise I'm saying that you will be lucky to actually get 400ppi from
most scanners, and will never get 9600 ppi. But as far as the file goes,
you are correct - it makes no sense to use a 9600ppi image if either the
source media or hardware has 400ppi resolution.
* jweise: @Donald.McLean I understand your point now. Interesting.

Answer by jweise
----------------
The *ideal* format for preservation at this time is TIFF with 24bit
color and no compression. PNG with lossless compression is a reasonable
alternative. JPEG using the highest quality setting (minimal lossy
compression) will serve many personal preservation needs and some
professional, well enough. Adobe DNG for preservation coupled with JPEG
is worth considering, and is a method used for high-quality digital
photography, but could also be used for scanned photos.

The "extra" questions about resolution and color adjustments are
probably best answered separately. Nonetheless, they are important, and
so briefly:

400 pixels per inch (ppi) scanning resolution is sufficient for most
printed photographs. 600 ppi might be necessary to capture the grain in
certain situation. Approximately 3000 ppi is typically sufficient to
capture the full detail of a photograph from 35mm film. Only use the
native *optical* resolutions of the scanning device. Color management
using ICC color profiles and calibration techniques will help to achieve
the best possible results.

The hardware used to do the scanning plays a huge role in the quality of
the results.

Digging into the Details:

The *ideal* format for preserving analog digital photos is one that:

1.  Does not use lossy compression
2.  Has an open definition
3.  Is not proprietary nor use proprietary components such as
    compression
4.  Supports sufficient bit depth to represent the full dynamic range of
    color found in the original
5.  Is widely adopted by the preservation community
6.  Is approved by an international standards organization, or is at
    least a de-facto standard
7.  Should support embedded metadata standards
8.  Supports ICC color profiles

[TIFF](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000022.shtml)
largely complies with the above. More specifically, TIFF with 24 bits of
RGB color or 8 bits grayscale for black and white images, without
compression. It has proprietary origins but is open and probably more
widely adopted than any other format making it a de-facto standard. Like
most formats, there are many varieties of TIFF. TIFF without compression
is most appropriate. TIFF is rarely used with LZW lossless compression
within the preservation community, because
[LZW](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lempel%E2%80%93Ziv%E2%80%93Welch) has
multiple commercially held patents associated with it, making it
undesirable.

[PNG](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000153.shtml) is
a viable preservation format that supports lossless compression that is
free of patents (unlike LZW). If TIFF had not come first, PNG might be
used more widely for preservation than it is.

JPEG does not comply because is uses lossy compression. Every time a
lossy compression is resaved, the visual artifacts of the lossy
compression are compounded and the quality of the image degrades. Some
software applications, such as iPhoto, mitigate the effects by keeping
the original so the option always exists to revert to it. Technically,
the JPEG format supports lossless compression as well, but this feature
is so rarely implemented in software that it cannot be depended on in
the preservation context.

JPEG2000 complies if used with only lossless compression (a.k.a.
reversible), though it is relatively a very complicated format. It is
used extensively by some large preservation repositories, but is not a
good choice for the average user.

RAW formats tend to be proprietary and therefore not as reliable in the
long term. RAW formats store the greatest amount of visual data because
it represents what the hardware is actually capable of, but are not
supported widely by viewing applications. [Adobe Digital
Negative](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Negative) (DNG) is,
however, a relatively good option in this realm. Pair Adobe DNG with
JPEG and you have a rich master and an easy to use copy, in that order.

[BMP](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000189.shtml) is
a proprietary format controlled by Microsoft that is deeply integrated
into the Windows operating system. It was not designed for
interoperability. Therefore, it has not been used widely for
preservation.

Finally, this topic is one that has been examined thoroughly on an
ongoing basis for a couple of decades in the digital preservation realm
and there is a ton of information available on the web if you care to
explore it further. I've tried to give a concise answer (ha!) without
compromising preservation ideals. The external links of provided barely
scratch the surface.

### Comments ###
* warren: why TIFF over, say, BMP or PNG?
* jweise: I have added BMP and PNG to my answer. PNG is a reasonable choice.
Thanks.
* Avery Payne: @warren I think that's probably a matter of support, how long it's been
out, etc. TIFF seems to be a commonly supported format for several
digital platforms.
* warren: @AveryPayne - I've always had very bad success with TIFF images through
the years

