---
title:What should be the qualifications for digital archivist jobs?
---
What should be the qualifications for digital archivist jobs?
=====================
I'm increasingly seeing listings for "Digital Archivists" at a range of
cultural heritage organizations and many of them look very different
from each other.

As academic programs increasingly try to prepare students for careers as
digital archivists it would be helpful to have a sense of what the
qualifications they should be developing are. With that said, I've seen
listings for digital archivists that:

-   [want people with master's degrees in computer
    science](http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/3519/)
-   [look much more like digital asset manager
    jobs](http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/4167/) and are primarily focused
    on organizing digital assets and doing things like running content
    management systems.
-   [want the candidate to have a
    PhD](http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/1472/).
-   [focus on archival description and are looking for people with an MA
    or MILS](http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/342/)
-   include varying degrees of technical skills ([in this case MySQL and
    Archivematica](http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/4702/))

So, what should the general qualifications for a digital archivist job
be in terms of training, credentials and technical chops?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: Great question! For a field conversant with ideas like controlled
vocabularies, digital archives have a lot of term confusion. I noticed
that the Digital Repository of Ireland repeatedly calls itself a
"trusted digital repository" without any evidence of a third-party or
self-audit.


Answer by Bill Lefurgy
----------------
Trying to answer this question means aiming at a moving target, as the
field is still emergent. The best recent source I've seen is [Digital
Curation in the Academic Library Job
Market](https://www.asis.org/asist2012/proceedings/Submissions/283.pdf)
(PDF) by Jeonghyun Kim and others. They reviewed 100+ job announcements
"to identify competencies required of individuals working in the digital
curation field." Quickly summarizing, they found 85% of jobs called for
a MLS and 66% for specific curatorial experience. The most common skills
and knowledge called for were:

-   Working in an Information Technology Intensive Environment
    (knowledge of multiple operating systems and web architectures,
    etc.)
-   Standards and Specifications (MARC, Dublin Core, METS, MODS, PREMIS,
    etc.)
-   Project Management
-   Personal and Interpersonal Skills

These findings relate to only a section of the field, but they seem
reasonable in a broad, current sense.

### Comments ###

Answer by Aaron Rubinstein
----------------
As someone who has held "digital archivist" positions in academic
archives and special collections, I would say a firm understanding of
archival principles and experience with a wide range of archival skills
is the sine qua non requirement of any archivist.

The approach necessary to properly handle archival materials in physical
and digital form are, at a high-level, not substantially different. Some
of the unique skills that make archivists well-suited to contemporary
positions that require managing digital as well as physical materials
are:

-   knowledge of XML and XSLT (sad but true);
-   knowledge of at least one scripting language for data janitorial
    work;
-   willingness to learn and implement new technologies, ask questions,
    and engage with the archival and technical community;
-   knowledge of IA and UX principles.

Anything else depends on the specific needs of the institution and can
include application development, digital repository administration,
masters degree in the humanities, etc...

### Comments ###
* Nicholas Webb: While I agree completely on the importance of all four of your bullet
points, neither scripting nor IA/UX was a part of my formal archival
education (an MSIS in Archives & Records Administration, 2008), which
focused on traditional paper-based arrangement and description. I bring
these skills to the job not "as an archivist" but via previous
experience as a programmer and hobbyist sysadmin. A graduate curriculum
for digital archivists certainly needs to incorporate these skills, but
is this currently the case at many institutions?
* Nicholas Webb: I'd also add basic sysadmin knowledge to the list. In my experience,
being able to communicate confidently with the staff responsible for
deploying the server for our repository was essential in getting them on
board and moving the project forward.
* Aaron Rubinstein: Absolutely, @NicholasWebb. To be a good contemporary archivist you need
to be an archivist +, the + being a variety of technical skills that you
don't learn in library school. I strongly suggest folks seek these
skills out on their own to be competitive for a "digital archivist"
position.

Answer by Joan E. Beaudoin
----------------
Bill Lefurgy and Aaron Rubinstein have presented excellent responses to
this question. I would add that it would be critical for the digital
archivist to also understand the content (its importance, historical
context, etc.) held in the archive.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paramaeleon
----------------
A university degree in [computational
linguistics](http://aclweb.org/aclwiki/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions_about_Computational_Linguistics#What_is_Computational_Linguistics.3F),
also known as *natural language processing* (NLP). Computational
linguistics isn’t computer science, it is “the programmer’s corner” of
applied linguistics. Computational linguists are well-trained in
information extraction, know to make use of regular expressions and have
a deep insiechniques such as OCR, speech recognition and search engine
operation. Owning a university degree also implies the qualification to
self-educate which is important, too, since there is a variety of
computer systems around, including new ones mushrooming day by day.

One more fact that—to my eyes—favours computational linguists over
computer scientists is that computer science focuses a lot on well
modeled software (which quickly results in large, ressource consuming
software architectures) meanwhile utational linguists had to learn to do
their job with little equipment for historical reasons, since computers
have had little ressources in past days [at least those the linguistics
department got approval for] while corpora processing frequently
involves processing *very* large amounts of data.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: I would think computational linguistics is a skill digital archivists
should know about, but not something they can develop software/scripts
for. It would seem more efficient to outsource that work to
computational linguistics programmers.
* mopennock: Completely agree with Nick - something to know about, but a not to need
a degree in. A degree in archival or library science would be far more
appropriate. But the question seems also to be about what such a degree
course should cover, in which case a module introducing computational
linguistics may well be relevant.

