---
title : Is emulation a good option for preserving large email collections?
---
Is emulation a good option for preserving large email collections?
=====================
What are the pros and cons, if the collection is from one person and
contains many attachments in various formats?

Bill Lefurgy

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: Sorry Bill, but as it stands the question is rather abstract. There are
too many variables. What is the nature of the material? Who needs access
to it? What format is it in? There are plenty of places (NZ Visual
Rendering Matters report to name one) to point people asking the above
question, but biven the goal of this SE being a problem solving expert
community, I don't think pondering emulation at face value is of much
value.


Answer by mjuarez
----------------
Preservation of software, as opposed to digital media, is an entirely
different ball of wax. Part of it may be driven by the need to view
stored media that only a specific application or operating system can
understand. But, you could argue it would be useful to preserve the
application, platform or operating system, just for historical reasons.

You could argue that `abandonware` fits this case. There are people who
want to retain the ability to play old games, and sometimes run old
applications, but usually companies do not sell the game anymore, and/or
don't support them with newer operating systems. This brings with it
entirely different concerns around legality of distributing old
software, even if it's not commercially available anymore . While some
companies have gone out of business, the IP usually still belongs to
somebody out there,

You might also ask yourself, if it's worth it to actually keep old
software around in a runnable state. Why would you want to run WordStar
4.0 these days, for example? Maybe if you're really nostalgic about old
word processors, but otherwise, probably only of interest to a computer
museum. Any data that could have been useful in those old platforms
and/or applications has probably already been migrated to newer
platforms, so there is no need to keep the old software around.

### Comments ###

