---
title: "Is it necessary to save original media after all content has been copied from them?"
layout: default
---
Is it necessary to save original media after all content has been copied from them?
=====================
Necessary in the sense of potentially needing to extract additional
information from the physical object.

Bill Lefurgy

<div class="tags"><span class="tag">storage-media</span><span class="tag">forensics</span></div>

### Comments ###


Answer by Dmitry Brant
----------------
To correctly preserve digital media would mean having an exact binary
image of said media, which by definition contains *all* the data stored
on it. As a bonus, we could save a photo of the media in addition to the
binary image.

After a proper binary image has been saved, the only reason to keep the
original media would be for historical or nostalgia purposes, since the
media would never need to be **accessed** again.

For example, I still have an original Zork I floppy disk for Commodore,
even though I have an image of it that I use with an emulator. I'll be
sad if I ever lose the original disk, but I'll always have the disk in
virtual form, and I'll never need to access the original disk again.

Generally I would argue that *it's the data* that is important, not the
medium on which it's stored. As long as the data makes it onto the most
modern medium, the old medium can be discarded.

### Comments ###
* occulus: +1 for "exact binary image". This is crucial in forensics.

Answer by mopennock
----------------
If you've extracted absolutely all of the content from the original
media, including any information printed on the outside and perhaps also
on the case, **and you can confirm this has been done**, then in most
instances it should not be necessary to save the original media. But
there absolutely must be confirmation that all information and content
has been correctly copied before the original media is discarded. There
should also be a record of the copying process - who copied, how, when,
etc.

That said, there are inevitably instances where it is preferable to
retain it, eg:

-   where the original media itself is of interest as a physical object
-   where there is an institutional requirement to maintain the original
    media, even if it degrades

The original media should never simply be disposed of as a matter of
course. Institutions should preferably have a policy stating and
justifying the process before any destruction takes place.

### Comments ###

Answer by Joan E. Beaudoin
----------------
I think this would depend on the kind of media you are working with. VHS
tapes are very different "media" than CDs. Personally, I would be
cautious about destroying any media, even if I believed I had extracted
all of the content as faithfully as was present in the original.

### Comments ###

