---
title: "How do DVD and Blu-Ray compare in durability?"
layout: default
---
How do DVD and Blu-Ray compare in durability?
=====================
The way Blu-Ray discs and DVDs are constructed may give one a durability
advantage over the other, but I lack the expertise to draw a firm
conclusion.

Some points: Blu-Ray is higher density, which requires a smaller laser
spot when reading. This limits the thickness of the cover layer to 0.1
mm, since a thicker cover would distort the spot. A single-sided DVD
uses only half its thickness for recording; I don't know whether this
means it's very well-protected from the top or very vulnerable on the
bottom, or both. Blu-Ray has a mandatory 2-nanometer hardcoat on the
reading side, but the better DVDs have the equivalent. The higher
density of Blu-Ray means that damage of a given size will take out more
bits. However, Blu-Ray claims to have a better error correction
algorithm.

I'd like to compare best against best, which means archival-quality,
single layer DVD+R against archival-quality, single layer BD R, so we
don't get bogged down in side issues like rewritable discs.

gmcgath

<div class="tags"><span class="tag">storage</span><span class="tag">storage-media</span></div>

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: Why do you need to know the answer to this question? Could you expand on
how this is of relevance to DP stack? Thanks Gary
* gmcgath: My personal need is to improve the quality of the advice I offer in
\_Files that Last\_. Of course, my saying that only bumps the question a
level. The broader question is the relative suitability of various media
for preservation, but asking the question in its most general form would
be too wide-open for this format.
* Paul Wheatley: I would argue that neither of these storage types are desirable for long
term preservation. [I posted an answer on this
here](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/5/comparative-lifetimes-of-digital-media/46\#46),
but the question has been closed. Maybe I should re-post here. Not sure
what the best practice is for this eventuality


Answer by kvanmalssen
----------------
The short answer is: none of these are archival quality. Optical media
will be obsolete in just a few years and drives for these are already
becoming scarce (my new MacBook Air doesn't have an optical drive!).
Optical media also pose digital preservation management challenges as
they are limited in how you can provide access, replicate, manage
integrity, perform QC, etc. As access copies for designated communities
who want and prefer these formats, that's fine. But preservation media
they are not.

I would strongly advise against giving anyone the impression that
optical media should in any way considered to be archival or suitable
for long-term preservation. As digital preservation professionals, we
have a responsibility to the public and other non-specialists to
demystify this notion that there is something archival about optical
discs that manufacturers seems to love to claim. What good is a low
error rate if there is no drive to read the content? It seems to be a
waste of effort to even talk about these issues, and is potentially
extremely misleading.

### Comments ###

