---
title:What would it take to preserve a basic flash game?
---
What would it take to preserve a basic flash game?
=====================
At this point there are tons of flash games and interactives out there.
Many of these have become significant works that we are going to want to
be able to play well into the future. So, what does it take to preserve
a flash game so it can be engaged with in the same way again in the
future?

-   Would it make sense to simply save copies of the files for the game?
-   Given that flash games play in web browsers, and come with
    dependencies on particular browser plugins, would one also want to
    have a copy of the browser and the plugin on hand?
-   Or would one just need to document the dependencies (for example,
    the version of flash it was made to run on)?
-   Are there other key issues one should consider in attempting to
    preserve a flash game so that it can be played in the future?


Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: Great question. I think in order to provide a concise and accurate
answer, one would need to know how you are considering the context of
these games. Do you wish for them to be accessed in a web browser in the
future, or is the web page irrelevant – merely a carrier. It is a
curatorial question in the end, but this is an essential factor in
considering your strategy.
* Trevor Owens: Good question. My initial response is that the web page is irreverent.
In this situation, the web page is the frame and the flash game is the
work.


Answer by lechlukasz
----------------
The great problem with flash technology is that it is closed technology,
controlled by one company. As a rule of the thumb, you should avoid such
things if you want to use something for the very long time. Already now
there are compatibility issues, for example temporal lack of flash
plugin for Linux, low performance of plugin on Windows x64.

But assuming you are already 'in', the best way to be able to use the
program in the future is to create **snapshot** of the operating system
with functioning flash plugin (the **image** of the hard disk). There
are already [x86
emulators](http://www.thefreecountry.com/emulators/pc.shtml) and it is
rational to expect that even better versions will be available in the
future. You should also note the details of your hardware, it **could**
be necessary to create the hardware emulator to run that disk image.

### Comments ###

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
Yes, it probably makes sense to just save copies of the files of the
game. However, the first assumption here is that these Flash games don't
rely on any dynamic resource dependencies (as per this related post on
[Preserving Flash-driven
Art](http://rhizome.org/editorial/2013/feb/25/preserving-flash/)) - i.e.
that they truly are self-contained. This is difficult to be sure about,
unfortunately, short of playing though the whole game with your network
connection switched off.

The second assumption is that the Flash game is not coded in any way
that critically depends on being embedded in a web browser. This can
vary from simple dependence on critical parameters that are only
declared in the parent page, through to nasty cross-browser/plugin
scripting. Again, it's difficult to be sure about this limitation
without manual testing.

Beyond that, the critical information is the publication date so that a
contemporary playback environment can be constructed. Having said that,
if you expect to provide access, I would also recommend taking copies of
the dependent software. I'm a little more skeptical of the long-term
stability of specific virtual machine images (which can have subtle
dependencies like virtual hardware that may be deprecated), so I would
ideally also store the installation software for a suitable browser and
Flash plugin so that a suitable VM could be rebuild on top of a
reconstructed OS image.

Finally, you could also try a SWF-to-HTML5 migration (e.g. [Google's
Swiffy](https://www.google.com/doubleclick/studio/swiffy/) or [Adobe's
solution](http://www.adobe.com/uk/products/flash/flash-to-html5.html))
as a backup/alternative option. They are both closed-source products,
but the migrated versions of the SWF files would be in open formats.

### Comments ###
* Alexander Duryee: re: self-containment: It's not uncommon for Flash games to call out to a
server for high scores, play-with-friends, hooking into accounts, etc.
In cases where the SWF requires some sort of complex network to
function, you'll need an entire infrastructure to operate the object -
it isn't much use for an archive to have single player Farmville.
* Andy Jackson: Indeed, which brings us neatly around to the issues raised in [Paul's
answer](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/a/206/31).

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
The question seems to make the assumption that preserving a game means
preserving the digital bits that make up the game, and/or preserving the
experience of playing the game. This may well be the aim of the
preservation activity (in which case the other answers provide some
great detail on this), but equally, it might perhaps not be. Some have
argued that preserving the ability to play games might not actually be
the best way to achieve preservation of gaming as we know it.

James Newman and Daniel Ashton have, for example, eloquently made the
argument that [other approaches may better capture the essence of
preserving the experience of playing
games](http://www.transformationsjournal.org/journal/issue_20/article_03.shtml).
They suggest that player authored documents (such as game walkthroughs)
do a great job of capturing the experience of gameplay, and could
provide more understanding of that experience to future
users/gamers/historians than simply being presented with a running game.

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: Excellent point. I had assumed the aim was to preserve the ability to
play the game, rather than document how the game was played. Ideally, it
would be nice to have both.
* Paul Wheatley: +1 for both. I guess it depends on exactly what Trevor wanted to achieve
with preserving the games.
* Trevor Owens: I tried to frame this to be about preserving a game itself, completely
agree that may in fact not be the best thing to actually preserve, but
that I think is great fodder for another question, or set of questions
:) I'd love to see a strand of questions on identifying the significant
properties and intellectual objects we actually want to preserve to a
particular end.
* Peter Cliff: Could also just record someone playing it - folks do this a lot when
gaming. If people were then really eager, they could re-implement the
game and many flash games are ports of older titles...

