---
title:M-DISC as an archival storage medium
---
M-DISC as an archival storage medium
=====================
The M-DISC has been found by the United States Naval Air Warfare Center
Weapons Division to withstand accelerated aging testing with no data
degradation. No other optical disc has demonstrated such a capability.
Why hasn't the digital preservation industry adopted the M-DISC as a
recommended storage medium?

user173

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: This question looks like spam to support a particular product.
* mopennock: From the FAQ - 'You should only ask practical, answerable questions
based on actual problems that you face.' What's the problem that you
face here?


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
I can only speak as to why I don't/would not use M-Disc for my own
personal archiving.

My backup consists of virtually all of the digital media that my family
consumes:

1.  digital video of movies, TV shows and home movies

2.  digital music

3.  digital images (from a digital camera, or digitized prints)

4.  ebooks

5.  other files created by us in various formats

The total size of this content is approximately 1.5 TB, which would
require more than 300 M-Discs, just for one copy. I don't see my storage
needs doing anything but getting larger in the future.

With a per-disc cost of nearly \$3.00, it would cost me around \$1,000
to make a single backup of my data. There's no possible way that I could
justify that kind of expenditure, or the time involved to create and
maintain an archive using such a medium.

### Comments ###
* John Lovejoy: Not to mention the time taken to make that copy onto M-Discs - swapping
300 discs is going to take a while. As @donald-mclean mentioned, this
strategy would cost around \$1,000. You can buy a lot of 3 Terabyte
drives for that cost.
* Andy Jackson: And then there's the charming notion that in, a thousand years, there'll
be plenty of DVD drives knocking about in order to access these tiny
amounts if data.

