---
title: "What target preservation format and extraction process to use for digitized film currently on DVD+RW?"
layout: default
---
What target preservation format and extraction process to use for digitized film currently on DVD+RW?
=====================
I have some extremely valuable film footage that currently only exists
on multiple copies of a DVD+RW disc. The film was digitized in 2003 but
I currently don't know the specifications of either the digitization
process or output format on the DVD.

Currently, for reasons of storage and available expertise, I'm
converting our digital video files to MPEG-4 File Format, Version 2 with
AVC, High Profile (MP4\_FF\_2\_AVC\_HP or H.264) as it is widely used
and according to LOC specs it is ["designed to enable a high compression
capability for a desired image
quality"](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000081.shtml).
However, my goal is to create uncompressed video preservation files and
figured this important footage merits the extra storage needed.

But what uncompressed preservation format to extract the DVD to, and how
to do this? I see that [JPEG2000 in an MXF
container](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000013.shtml)
is used and recommended by LOC, but haven't found how they convert to
this format. Daisy-chaining open source tools seems possible, but
[complicated and
error-prone](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!topic/archivematica/JnoAisQjuCA).
There also seems to be disagreement on [JPEG-2000 as a preservation
format](http://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2013/01/is-jpeg-2000-a-preservation-risk/).
Should I extract to uncompressed AVI? Is the DVD footage already
compressed, and thus not worth extracting as uncompressed footage?

Matthew McKinley

Tags: <file-formats><storage-media>

### Comments ###
* Alexander Duryee: Is it safe to assume that this footage exists as a simple linear MPEG
stream, and does not have any chapter markers, menus, subtitles, etc.?
* Matthew McKinley: That's my understanding--no menu appears upon auto-play, and as it was
digitized from a film source, I find it unlikely that the digitizing
agents added any markers/subtitles/etc. though I'm stymied by a lack of
documentation of the digitization process. Maybe a separate question,
but is there a tool beyond a simple right click-\>properties that can
give me more information on the DVD's stream/source type, existing
contextual data such as menus/subtitle etc.?
* Donald.McLean: If it is a "real" DVD, that is, the kind that would play in a consumer
DVD player, then it is my understanding that it would be encoded in
H262/MPEG-2-part 2 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H.262/MPEG-2\_Part\_2)
format.


Answer by db48x
----------------
Whenever I need to identify the content of a video file I use [Media
Info](http://mediainfo.sourceforge.net/en). It should be able to give
you all of the information you need.

As for chaining together open source programs, that's often the best way
to go. You can eliminate some of the potential for errors by writing a
script or Makefile that will perform all of the steps for you. This
makes it repeatable, should you need to do this for another dvd in the
future, or in case you decide to revise the process later. I can also
serve as a form of documentation of what you actually did, especially if
you use version control.

I don't know what format is best for you at this point. If it's an
ordinary dvd then I would just rip the MPEG2 stream to a file and save
that. MPEG2 is a lossy encoding scheme, as are virtually all other video
formats (including MotionJPEG). Reencoding to another lossy format is
just going to reduce the overall quality of the data, even if you go to
a more efficient MPEG4/H.264-based format.

### Comments ###

Answer by kvanmalssen
----------------
If this is the only copy you have of this film that you can use for
preservation purposes, you have to now consider it the original, and
treat it as such. If this is an "authored" DVD, and not a data DVD, the
video has already been encoded and compressed (using lossy compression)
to a particular format:
[MPEG-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MPEG-2#DVD-Video) with a
colorspace of 4:2:0. In order to create an archival video file from this
DVD, you should capture it at its native encoding and resolution. Using
VLC or ffmpeg (if you are comfortable on the command line), capture the
MPEG-PS or TS file without applying addition compression or transcoding.
You will have the native file and the highest possible resolution in a
self-contained MPEG file.

To answer your question "Is the DVD footage already compressed, and thus
not worth extracting as uncompressed footage?" the answer is yes: this
is heavily compressed content and you will not gain anything by
upconverting to uncompressed or transcoding to JPEG2000 except for a
bunch of bits and the need for additional storage space.

If your archive has a normalization policy for video such as what you
describe above, you could consider transcoding to this format (taking
care to preserve characteristics such as the aspect ratio and frame
size). But I would advise keeping the MPEG file as your original master,
in line with the archival practices of retaining originals.

### Comments ###

