---
title: "How to digitize audio casettes?"
layout: default
---
How to digitize audio casettes?
=====================
I have large collection of audio casettes, I'm looking for the way to
digitize them preserving relatively good audio quality, and being
home-budgeted in the same time.

I've thought about connecting the casette player through mini-jack audio
to laptop (microphone plug) and playing the casettes, recording audio in
the same time on laptop. But is that the best way to preserve audio
quality?

Another topic is speed, this would take about 1 hour to digitize 1
casette, changing the side after \~30 minutes. I wonder if there are
devices specialized for digitizing casettes, possibly having own storage
or connected through USB cable, being able to digitize with faster speed
than normal playing? Are such devices affordable for home user?

What"s the best way to digitize my collection?

lechlukasz

### Comments ###


Answer by Dmitry Brant
----------------
There are actually devices that can digitize your cassettes at a faster
rate (up to 8x), but they're generally quite expensive:
[http://www.bhphotovideo.com/bnh/controller/home?O=&sku=562786&Q=&is=REG&A=details](http://www.bhphotovideo.com/bnh/controller/home?O=&sku=562786&Q=&is=REG&A=details)

The alternative would be to do exactly what you describe: hook up a
cassette player to your computer, and use recording software (like
Audacity) to save the audio.

Just make sure that you have a good-quality cassette player, and a
good-quality cable. On the player, make sure to turn up the volume as
high as possible, but check that it doesn't clip the audio.

### Comments ###
* woliveirajr: also make sure that the player is clean, and that you clean it after
some tapes... old tapes probably have dust on them, and will make your
player head dirty too.

