---
title : Under what circumstances would it ever make sense to use encryption during archival of digital information?
---
Under what circumstances would it ever make sense to use encryption during archival of digital information?
=====================
The use of encryption during archival of digital information could
potentially lead to the inability to decrypt it in the future, but are
there any situations wherein such complexity is warranted and
appropriate in an archival process? For example, if you were archiving
something under copyright and not owned by you, perhaps you would want
to encrypt it until the copyright expired to justify fair use?

WilliamKF

### Comments ###


Answer by Chris Adams
----------------
I think you have the primary reason in the question: legal or
contractual requirements which obligate you to limit access and you want
more protection against human error or technical lapses. If you had
copyrighted materials it might make sense to encrypt the master files so
a security intrusion which resulted in access to your file servers but
not the keys wouldn't be a potential legal disaster. This might be
particularly handy if your institution is not normally in the business
of handling sensitive materials and the difficult process of
retrofitting strong access controls throughout the system is too
challenging.

There is one interesting technical aspect, however, which is worth
reviewing: encryption requires you to treat the keys as rigorously as
the actual archived material but the keys are considerably smaller which
allows you to do things which would otherwise not be feasible given the
size or sensitivity of the material. This could include using
third-party services to transfer content and exchanging the keys over a
separate channel, storing encrypted backups on a cloud provider or
entering into a long-term partnership with a peer institution with the
plan to release the keys later when the material leaves copyright or a
donor restriction has expired. One particularly interesting aspect in
some cases is that it may be possible to meet requirements for deleting
content (horrible, I know, but in some cases it's necessary) by deleting
the keys rather than having to prove that you've purged every copy of
the data from your servers, backups, etc.

One practical implication: each item (however you defined that
logically) should be encrypted with a separate, very strong key. Large
data files at rest are both hard to change and easy for an attacker to
brute-force so you want to pick a very strong encryption system & key
and use a separate system to track the keys so you avoid the need to
e.g. re-encrypt your entire HD video archive because someone wrote a
password down or shared it. This is also a great spot to build in access
control and logging if that's a requirement.

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: Doesn't encryption increase the risk of data corruption? In an encoded
format like JPEG losing bits in the middle of the bitstream leaves the
first half intact. Is this possible with encryption?
* Chris Adams: This is often true - it depends on whether the encryption is a single
stream or some sort of blocked scheme - but I would argue it's a
separate concern because data corruption is an significant concern for
any content and should be solved at the storage layer, where generic
bitstream integrity is IMO an entry-level requirement.
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: I think keeping those kind of characteristics in mind should inform the
design of the storage layer to some degree. Objects more sensitive to
bit loss might require additional measures such as more copies in the
system or more frequent fixity checks.

Answer by db48x
----------------
Encryption is usually used for keeping secrets, and if all you are
concerned with is copyright (which only governs who is allowed to
distribute a work), then the material is probably not secret.

I can see it being useful for a corporation that is archiving or backing
up its internal communications, source code, etc. You could also use it
whenever you have to store your data in the cloud, since in that case
you cannot trust the provider not to get raided or shut down, even if
the government is after someone else.

Just remember that encrypted files cannot be compressed or deduplicated,
although you can of course compress the data before you encrypt it.

### Comments ###
* Chris Adams: "clown\^Hcloud"? Really?
* db48x: Edit it if you don't like it.

