---
title : Where to publish master's thesis (in PDF)?
---
Where to publish master's thesis (in PDF)?
=====================
I have my master thesis in PDF. While the printed original is stored on
the faculty where I have studied, the digital version in nowhere
published. The free hostings will typically perish after some years, and
the payed ones will be removed as soon as you don't pay the next fee.

This thesis is nothing very special (in other case I would be doctor now
:) but it was a lot effort anyway and someone else could find this
useful.

Where can I publish such resources, so that they will be preserved for
future generations? Is there a site specialized in storing such
resources, or a sharing community from that it would be copied to many
places (interested users), preserving it from disapearing?

lechlukasz

### Comments ###
* jcmeloni: Which is your primary goal: \*publish\*, \*preserve\*, or both?
* John Lovejoy: Not sure if this is a digital preservation question at all.


Answer by luser droog
----------------
Perhaps the best way at present is to arrange to have it snagged by the
[Wayback Machine](http://archive.org/web/web.php) (or another archive)
from your homepage at your current institution. That way you'll have a
more or less permanent URL, as long as the Internet Archive lasts.

~~If it can be formatted as straight text, one or another usenet group
would likely be thrilled to see it (and automatically archive it in
numerous usenet archives throughout the world). I've been doing this
with little programs and ideas, mainly so I can find my own work again
after my computer inevitably dies. :)~~ According to [this
answer](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/a/71/62), I'm full
of crap here.

I was about to say Google Docs, but I see it's now turned into Google
Drive, and that strikes me as a little unstable.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paramaeleon
----------------
General rule:
-------------

1.  Put your publication under an [open
    license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/).
2.  Make it available online. If it is worth it, I suppose net community
    will start to care for it then.

More specific to your question:
-------------------------------

Address yourself to your faculty first. Maybe they run a subject
oriented [repository in
publishing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repository_%28publishing%29) or
they know a scientific society which does this for your field of study.
If they don’t do, ask your university’s library for it and do not
hesitate to continue to your regional library and—if they don’t provide
for that—move on to your national library as well. Make sure your thesis
is in PDF/A format and be prepared to seperately provide some so called
“metadata” for cataloging, mainly

-   the full list of contributors,
-   the title,
-   any alternative titles,
-   the abstract,
-   some subject keywords,
-   the gemporal coverage,
-   the dates the thesis was created / started, last modified /
    finished, submitted to and accepted by the department
-   the language(s) used (think of foreign language cites, too),
-   the table of contents,
-   the bibliography or
-   the format (here: PDF) and extend (may be
-   the number of pages or
-   file size as well).

Last: If you think you’ve created something of worth anyhow, it maybe
would make sense to make a scientific artie of it and aim for publishing
it in a scientific magazine.

### Comments ###
* jweise: Additionally, I think it is worth mentioning "institutional
repositories" as specific type of publishing repository since they are
increasingly common on campuses and are often maintained by libraries
for the very purpose of preserving the intellectual output of the
institution in digital form.

Answer by db48x
----------------
Anyone can upload anything to the Internet Archive, independent of the
Wayback Machine. The Wayback Machine is hard or impossible to search;
you really need to know the url of the content you want to access. On
the other hand, regular items in the archive can have arbitrary metadata
and are much easier to search for.

Aside from that, a simple webpage is not very expensive, and will tend
to be more authoritative than an item that is merely in an archive.

### Comments ###
* lechlukasz: but something that costs even one cent will cease to exist if there will
be noone to pay that cent...

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
Another excellent option is to use [the Arxiv pre-print
server](http://arxiv.org/), which is a great way to get papers online
with appropriate metadata (if they have a suitable category that applies
to your work).

### Comments ###
* lechlukasz: Isn't it for English language only?
* Andy Jackson: Good question: No, [they accept non-English works if accompanied with an
English abstract](http://arxiv.org/help/faq/multilang).

