---
title: "DVD preservation format"
layout: default
---
DVD preservation format
=====================
No, I am **not** about to ask what type of DVDs are "archival."

I am pondering the following… For the preservation of a DVD, where the
DVD format itself is significant (i.e. the interactive experience of the
menus, etc), what could be considered a preservation format?

Is a rip that produces audio TS / video TS folders sufficient for
longevity, or is a raw, sector level disc image the best approach?

Ben Fino-Radin

<div class="tags"><span class="tag">disk-image</span><span class="tag">dvd</span><span class="tag">rip</span><span class="tag">dump</span></div>

### Comments ###


Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
Well, DVDs are in [Universal Disk
Format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Disk_Format) - extended
from the ISO9660 format - so if you rip them directly as block devices
that's what you get, and you get everything. I believe the region
encryption is done within this container, and there are no 'tracks' as
with CD-ROMS (or rather there is always just one data track).

Disclaimer: There may be fancy DVD formats that use more tracks, weird
copy protection, or other unusual stuff.

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: Thanks Andy – it's clear that such an image would capture the lowest
level of information, but this says nothing of whether or not you would
consider this to be a \*\*preservation\*\* format. This in my mind means
not only a perfect capture of the data, but in a format that I will
likely be able to interpret and render accurately in years to come.
* Andy Jackson: I believe this format is trivial to 'mount' as a virtual disk and
playback using open source software - e.g. VLC. I'm not aware of any
other format that is capable of replaying DVD-specific features, e.g.
menus etc.
* serilain: Agreed. If you want a 1:1 copy of the menus (VIDEO\_TS) and all, image
the disc; otherwise, defer to ffmpeg.

