---
title: "What is the recommended practice for retaining logs of fixity checks?"
layout: default
---
What is the recommended practice for retaining logs of fixity checks?
=====================
I am wondering what the recommended practice is for retaining event
metadata generated by fixity checks. Let's say my collection is in the
range of 100 TB. If I have a process running fixity checks on stored
archival data continuously (because it's going to take a while to get
through everything), this will produce a sizeable log of fixity check
event data: file path, hash value, date/time, outcome, etc. Storing this
data for every fixity event in a PREMIS XML file seems inefficient and
unwieldy (of course, storing the original hash value/algorithm/datetime
created in PREMIS makes sense -- this is presumed to be the data that
future fixity checks would validate against). Likewise, I'm not sure if
storing this data in a database is worthwhile either. It seems that text
files with fixity event logs would be the more lightweight option. My
interrelated questions on this issue are:

-   How do most repositories store fixity event outcome data? Log, data
    store, XML (PREMIS or other)?
-   If the outcome of the fixity check is positive, should I retain the
    data? Or should the system overwrite the old data when the process
    begins again?
-   If the fixity outcome data is retained, for how many events, and for
    how long? Should I only keep the data for the last 2 or 3 events, or
    keep them all indefinitely?

I know some of this is a question of retention policy and specific to my
repository's architecture, and that could be case by case for each
repository, but I'm wondering what the general recommended practice is
for retention and storage of this data.

kvanmalssen

Tags: <checksum><fixity><hash><integrity><retention>

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: If the hashes match, you certainly wouldn't need to store the hash
again. A timestamp specifying when the most recent fixity check was
performed could be beneficial, but for the expected hash, one can just
go back to the ingest fixity data.


