---
title: "When using a Fedora Repository what are the relative merits of storing files inside and outside the system?"
layout: default
---
When using a Fedora Repository what are the relative merits of storing files inside and outside the system?
=====================
So [Fedora](http://fedora-commons.org/) is intended as a framework for
building digital repositories. With that said, some organizations chose
to store digital objects and files inside the Fedora system while others
chose to reference them from inside Fedora. What are the relative merits
of each of these options? In particular, what preservation risks do you
mitigate and expose your self to with either option.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Peter Murray: I presume you are referring to the \*M\*anaged datastream versus the
\*E\*xternal datastream?
* Trevor Owens: Yes, exactly. Feel free to make edits if you think it could be clearer.


Answer by Greg Jansen
----------------
One has to assume that in a preservation repository the external
datastreams are also managed in some sense. So the risk will depend upon
how well they are managed. A local solution always implies that you
sustain local knowledge of the system and so there is some degree of
risk in that. In contrast, the Fedora system knowledge is sustained by
the DuraSpace organization and user community.

In general there is more likely to be a complete and accurate audit
trail for managed data streams, since changes come in via the Fedora
APIM. Timestamps in Fedora will match up with when the data was written
to storage. If configured properly, Fedora will calculate checksums
whenever the data stream is written. The data will also be protected by
the Fedora security layer; for instance delete may be forbidden by FeSL
policies. External data streams will have to be protected by some other
means.

One disadvantage of managed datastreams is the ingest process. If Fedora
manages the data, then Fedora must stream the data into storage. The
data moves through the Fedora server. Unless you enhance the Fedora
ExternalContentManager module, this means data is uploaded to the Fedora
server over HTTP or HTTPS. For larger data this is a problem. Hopefully
this constraint will go away at some point, allowing for other ingest
strategies. There are workarounds. At UNC we extended the
ExternalContentManager to support ingest from iRODS locations.

Having to physically move the data, as opposed to a logical move, seems
like a risk to me. It necessitates a checksum comparison, one calculated
before ingest and one calculated by Fedora.

### Comments ###

