Opening Obscure Audio Transcription Files
=====================
Working with 3.5 floppies from the late 1980s I have come across some
strange file formats that I am having trouble making sense of. These
include, .ATP .DSP and .QT2 file extensions. If I open them in a text
editor I can read a good bit of text. Based on reading this text, the
file names, and the contextual information written on the disks I am
relatively confident that these are transcripts created by some kind of
dictation software. I'm happy that I can read some of the text in the
files, but I would like to be able to really work with them.

I goggled around a bit but couldn't find any good leads for what
particular application made these files and if there are any current
programs that can open them? If not, I would be interested in any
suggestions folks have for how to go about working with these files
beyond opening them in a text editor and reading the parts that come
through as text.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* Dmitry Brant: Can you ask the original owner of the floppies whether they remember
what software they might have used?
* Trevor Owens: Nope. They are a small part of a large collection and were likely
created by a hired staff person.
* luser droog: Are the files private? Can you show a hex-dump of a small portion?
* wizzard0: Can you provide samples of these files?
* Trevor Owens: @wizzard0 not at this point. But I will look into seeing if I can.
* Paul Wheatley: If you can share them as CC0, [this is a good location to share unusual
formats and/or broken
files](https://github.com/openplanets/format-corpus), get input from DP
folks and help build a resource for DP tool developers and testers.


Answer by Christian Pietsch
----------------
I have not seen these file extensions before. On the other hand, there
are other ways to find out what a file contains. Unixoid systems such as
Linux and Mac OS X come with a little tool called `file` which can probe
the first bytes of any file and then make an educated guess about the
format it contains. To do that, it uses a database of characteristic
patterns which is usually located in `/usr/share/misc/magic`. The magic
database on my computer contains 11,543 non-comment lines, so I guess it
can detect more than 10,000 file formats. There is a good chance it will
be able to identify your file formats.

The Java world offers several more format identification tools:
[JHOVE2](http://jhove2.org/) is a framework for “format-aware
characterization of digital objects”, [Tika](https://tika.apache.org/)
calls itself a “content analysis toolkit”, and a slightly dated
alternative is called [DROID](http://digital-preservation.githubid/) for
“Digital Record and Object Identification”.

All of these tools are free and open-source software.

### Comments ###

Answer by woliveirajr
----------------
.ATP is (or might be) the Sony mini-disc ATRAC format. take a look
[here](http://www.ehow.com/facts_5531617_file-extension-atp.html) and
[here](http://file.downloadatoz.com/atp-file-extension/)

.DSP seems to be audio-related, too.

.QT2 , according to [this site](http://filext.com/file-extension/QT2),
is a file associated with some document viewer, but I couldn't open the
original publisher...

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: This is interesting. What is really strange is that these files are all
really tiny (30k-\>60k) and they are mostly made up of text. Would that
make sense with the audio formats?
* woliveirajr: Yes, my answer is just based on the file extensions and some research...
to really help, would need access to one (or more) files, or you can try
what Christian Pietsch told...

