---
title:When to normalize born digital video for preservation and when to keep heterogeneous original file formats
---
When to normalize born digital video for preservation and when to keep heterogeneous original file formats
=====================
With the long term in mind, (50-100 years) what situations is it good to
normalize video for preservation to particular formats that have less
preservation risks and when is it better to just stick with the
originals?

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###


Answer by wizzard0
----------------
It is hard to predict which formats will stick, but there are general
rules to consider:

1.  The format should be simple (i.e. do not require setting up complex
    streaming servers etc). For example, MJPEG is simpler than MPEG
    which is simpler than full-blown DVD container with menus etc.
2.  The format should not require cumbersome licensing or obtaining
    patent rights to decoding/playing.
3.  Source code for the decoders should be available, otherwise we risk
    decoders dying together with companies that maintain them
4.  Since different codecs introduce different kinds of artifacts, give
    plenty of headroom when selecting bit rate. If possible, use PSNR or
    some other metrics to check re-encoded video for artifacts. If the
    video can be encoded to lossless formats like huffyuv with enough
    compression (e.g. screencasts or cartoons), use them.
5.  Keep the originals too.
6.  If possible, keep 2 formats - one with inter-frame compression (e.g.
    H264) and one with intra-frame only (e.g. MJPEG). Use the latter for
    creating new re-encodes when needed.


### Comments ###
* kvanmalssen: Keep in mind that an audiovisual file is a complex digital object, with
multiple "formats" to consider. There is the container format, then the
encoding formats of the video, (optional) audio and other tracks. It is
important to look files in their entirety when thinking about migration.
While migration will likely have to occur frequently for access
purposes, depending on your users needs, a high quality preservation
master whose file and encoding formats score high on the Sustainability
of Digital Formats criteria should have staying power.

