---
title: "How do I get JHOVE2 to build?"
layout: default
---
How do I get JHOVE2 to build?
=====================
I've downloaded JHOVE2 and attempted to build it, using Maven through
Eclipse with the target "compile". I get the following error:

> [ERROR] Failed to execute goal on project jhove2: Could not resolve
> dependencies for project org.jhove2:jhove2:jar:2.0.0: Failed to
> collect dependencies for [commons-logging:commons-logging-api:jar:1.1
> (compile), commons-logging:commons-logging:jar:1.1.1 (compile),
> org.springframework:spring-context:jar:2.5.6 (compile),
> org.springframework:spring-test:jar:2.5.6 (test),
> log4j:log4j:jar:1.2.14 (compile), junit:junit:jar:4.4 (test),
> jdom:jdom:jar:1.0 (compile), soap:soap:jar:2.3.1 (compile),
> xerces:xercesImpl:jar:2.9.1 (compile),
> xml-resolver:xml-resolver:jar:1.2 (compile), net.sf:jargs:jar:1.0
> (compile), org.mvel:mvel2:jar:2.0.18 (compile),
> org.geotools:gt-main:jar:2.6.5 (compile),
> org.geotools:gt-shapefile:jar:2.6.5 (compile),
> com.sleepycat:je:jar:4.0.103 (compile)]: Failed to read artifact
> descriptor for net.sf:jargs:jar:1.0: Could not transfer artifact
> net.sf:jargs:pom:1.0 from/to JBOSS
> ([http://repository.jboss.org/maven2/](http://repository.jboss.org/maven2/)):
> Access denied to
> [http://repository.jboss.org/maven2/net/sf/jargs/1.0/jargs-1.0.pom](http://repository.jboss.org/maven2/net/sf/jargs/1.0/jargs-1.0.pom).
> Error code 403, Forbidden -\> [Help 1]

This may be because JHOVE2 hasn't been updated in a few years, so the
dependencies in its pom.xml perhaps are no longer valid. On the other
hand, every time I touch Maven something bad happens, so I may just be
doing something dumb. Are there any changes to pom.xml or other tricks
which can get the build working?

gmcgath

### Comments ###


Answer by ksclarke
----------------
You're right... the repository that was used at the time that the JHOVE2
pom.xml was created has been changed (so it can't resolve its dependency
on jargs). You can fix this problem by making a simple change to the
pom.xml file which is in the root directory of the JHOVE2 project that
you downloaded.

If you open the pom.xml file with a text editor look for the following
section:

    <repositories>
            <!-- for jargs GNU Command Line Parser -->
            <repository>
                    <id>JBOSS</id>
                    <name>JBoss Repository</name>

You'll see there is a \<url\> element right after the \<name\> element
listed above. Change that to:

    <url>https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/content/repositories/thirdparty-releases/</url>

then save the file. The next step would be to run Maven to install it
(usually done at the command line with: `mvn install` (but you can do it
from within Eclipse too)). However when I do that with a fresh download
of JHOVE2 it fails with errors in the tests that are a part of the
build. If I instead build it with:

    mvn -DskipTests=true install

It will build JHOVE2 while skipping the tests. I didn't look into why
the tests are failing (and they might not for you -- I just grabbed the
latest download from JHOVE2's BitBucket page). Hope this helps!

### Comments ###
* ksclarke: Also, I see there is a ticket in JHOVE2 for this issue:
https://bitbucket.org/jhove2/main/issue/128/jargs-jar-has-moved-to-a-different-maven
* gmcgath: That got me a successful build, thanks!

