---
title:What is the best format for storing digital photos?
---
What is the best format for storing digital photos?
=====================
What is the best format for storing digital photos, having digital
preservation issues in mind?

There are a plenty of formats nowadays, such as JPG and PNG, but how
**standarized** they are, having in mind that after 50 or 100 years they
may cease to exist and be replaced by much better formats?

The ideal format for photo preservation should be good documented and
relatively simple to implement, so that in worst case, when after those
50 or 100 years someone will find forgotten collection, and there will
be no software opening such old formats, it would be relatively quick to
implement the converter?

lechlukasz

### Comments ###
* Riduidel: possible duplicate of [What is the ideal format to scan analog
photos?](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/17/what-is-the-ideal-format-to-scan-analog-photos)
* Michael Kjörling: @Riduidel Actually, I see these two questions as complementary rather
than duplicates. The other question seems to be about \*born analog\*
data, whereas this is about \*born digital\* data.
* lechlukasz: The points of weight are put completly other, the alleged duplicate is
concentrated which format is best for now, my is concentrated on future
issued which are there not pointed


Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
I would argue that if you want *simple to read*, then uncompressed BMP
without a lot of bells and whistles is probably a good choice. It is an
extremely simple format (basically a header specifying color depth,
width, height and some identifying information, followed by the raw
pixel data), and it supports up to eight bits per pixel per channel in
three channels (red, green and blue) which is the same as PNG and JPEG.
From what I understand, any BMP using less than 256 distinct colors also
stores the color palette used, but for photos, it makes sense to use 24
bits per pixel to capture as much color fidelity as possible. The
remainder of this answer deals primarily with 24-bpp BMPs, but the
general principles should hold at any bit depth.

The lack of compression means the files are very large (a 15 Mpx photo
in 24-bit color will be nearly 50 MB in size), but also makes them *easy
to interpret* if only you have cursory knowledge of the format. About
all you need to know is that there is [a relatively small
header](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BMP_file_format#Bitmap_file_header)
followed by RGB byte triplets each specifying one pixel (or an
appropriate number of bytes per pixel specifying indexes into the
palette), and you can probably write a decoder by simple trial and error
in a few hours. Given a set of uncompressed BMP files and preferably
*some* clue what they are supposed to look like, implementing a BMP
viewer from scratch is a fairly trivial task.

Another upside of uncompressed BMP is that minor data loss (other than
in the header) leads to absolutely minimal degradation: only the exact
pixels actually affected by the data loss are corrupted. And with some
mathematical trickery and human trial-and-error, the header can probably
be reconstructed from an otherwise complete image file, even if the
image data itself is degraded or corrupted, as long as the number of
bytes is correct.

The major downside of BMP is that the files are huge. For a full-color
image of any substantial pixel size, the resulting file size in bytes
can be approximated as `3 * H * W`, where `H` and `W` are the height and
width in pixels, respectively. As we know, image size expressed in
megapixels is simply `H * W`, so for a given image size of
`Mp megapixels` this simply reduces to `3 * Mp` megabytes of image data.

BMPs can also store ICC color profiles, enabling the viewer to
accurately render the colors as intended. That would be more complex to
implement, and I'm not sure how widespread support for ICC-carrying BMPs
is even today, but also would allow more faithful visualization of the
data than is possible with simply RGB triplets.

Pretty much any other format which meets the requirement of being easy
to read and long-lived in the face of advancing technology, compression
algorithms and so on, is going to basically boil down to the same thing
(a container plus raw, uncompressed bitmap data representing pixel color
value triplets). Uncompressed TIFF for example falls into that category.
So unless you have specific needs which cannot be met using BMP you
would gain little by choosing such a more advanced format, and risk
making it more difficult to understand for someone who has to
reverse-engineer it. Better then to stick to the KISS principle: *keep
it simple, stupid*. For preservation purposes, I'd take a stack of BMPs
over a single multi-page uncompressed TIFF any day.

### Comments ###
* D3C4FF: For longevity, i'd second the BMP format!
* wizzard0: Note that the BMP format is limited to 8 bits of precision per color
channel. You may look to EXR or DNG, with BMP as more easily accessible
copy.
* Michael Kjörling: @wizzard0 While it is true that BMP only supports a maxmimum of 8
bpp/channel, so does at least
[PNG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable\_Network\_Graphics), and
[support for 12-bit JPEG is not
widespread](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG\#JPEG\_compression), both
according to Wikipedia. So it stands to argue that this is not a
drawback of BMP in comparison to the cited example formats PNG and JPEG.
Of course, for maximum color fidelity, it may be a drawback.
* wizzard0: Yeah, that's why I pointed out to DNG and EXR

Answer by Courtney C. Mumma
----------------
The Archivematica project made format policy decisions based on a review
of significant characteristics and decided upon the best preservation
and access formats based on testing open source tool outcomes,
availability of open source conversion tools and ubiquity of format
rendering software.

In short, for raster images, we chose uncompressed TIFF for all but
JPEG2000 and PNG, which will be retained in their original formats for
preservation and JPEG for access. For vector images, we chose SVG 1.1
for preservation and PDF for access. Finally, for raw camera files we
chose to keep preservation copies in their original format though we may
consider DNG in the future. For access of raw camera files, we again
selected JPEG.

You can find detailed discussions of our decision-making and testing
here: Raster images:
[https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Raster\_images](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Raster_images)
Raw camera files:
[https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Raw\_camera\_files](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Raw_camera_files)
Vector images:
[https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Vector\_images](https://www.archivematica.org/wiki/Vector_images)

### Comments ###

