---
title: "What storage hardware should I use for a LOCKSS node?"
layout: default
---
What storage hardware should I use for a LOCKSS node?
=====================
I am planning to set up a [LOCKSS](http://www.lockss.org/) (“Lots Of
Copies Keep Stuff Safe”) node for a small PLN (“Private Locks Network”)
intended to safely store research and publication data from a few
universities.

A partner in this PLN recommended against using a RAID (“Redundant Array
of Inexpensive Disks”) for storage because RAID controllers can be
buggy, leading to a complete loss of all data stored on this node. On
the other hand, most data centers rely on RAso it cannot be all that
bad. LOCKSS was designed for commodity hardware, but at a university, it
can be more difficult to get a consumer-grade computer with a cheap
external USB hard drive than to get a server with redundant storage or a
virtual machine running on enterprise-class hardware.

In my mind, the two technologies should complement each other fairly
well: LOCKSS guards against bitrot and other inconsistencies in the
files, and RAID avoids data loss when a hard drive fails. Are there
serious reasons for not running a LOCKSS node on a server with RAID
storage? How about using a virtual machine?

Christian Pietsch

Tags: <storage><raid><lockss><bitrot>

### Comments ###


Answer by Fulup
----------------
De Montfort University is a part of the UK LOCKSS Alliance and public
LOCKSS network. We considered and rejected using RAID and currently have
4 separate disks in a separate server.

-   If the RAID disks were bought at the same time they could all be a
    part of the same batch with similar vulnerabilities;
-   The duplication within RAID can be considered wasteful given the
    duplication of content with a PLN.

LOCKSS can be put on a virtual server, but is a busy service and may not
play nicely with any other co-hosted servers.

### Comments ###
* Christian Pietsch: Thank you for answering the VM aspect of my question. Can you please
elaborate on how you use the 4 separate disks you mentioned? Is there
any redundancy between them locally, e.g. do you rsync one drive to
another regularly or something like that?
* Fulup: We have just added disks when they become full, there is no synching
between them. The first disk was about 250GB, when that filled up we
added a 750-GB disk. As that too became full we added two 2TB disks and
add content to them evenly. As they fill we are likely to swap the first
two disks for two larger ones and migrate the content onto them. At that
point, however, we might also be looking at other disk arrangements (e.g
RAID).

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
I work for MetaArchive, a LOCKSS PLN. We publish the technical
specifications for our LOCKSS nodes
[here](http://www.metaarchive.org/public/resources/charter_member/2013_Technical_Specifications.pdf).

We recommend the use of at least RAID 5 on all of our servers. RAID 5
dedicates a portion of each drive for parity data on all the drives. In
our recommended server configuration, we ask for 8 2TB drives, but only
14 TB of this is usable for storage and 2 TB is used for parity. If a
hard drive crashes, and it will happen, the parity data ensures that you
can not only reconstruct the lost data, but also ensure that all the
other drives remain safe.

LOCKSS networks have redundant copies spread around a network with
voting-and-polling to check fixity. This provides parity on a network
level, but it's much faster to recover from a hard drive crash locally
than over a network.

For more general advice, Backblaze, a cloud-based backup service,
recently published their 180 TB server configurations with [lots of
advice](http://blog.backblaze.com/2013/02/20/180tb-of-good-vibrations-storage-pod-3-0/).
Also, put all your drives through a burn-in test, since it appears that
drives have [higher infant mortality rate (page
4)](https://static.googleusercontent.com/external_content/untrusted_dlcp/research.google.com/en/us/archive/disk_failures.pdf)
It's easier to replace an empty drive under warranty than to wait for
the warranty to ship so you can rebuild an array.

### Comments ###
* Christian Pietsch: Thank you for pointing me in the right direction, although one could add
that your requirements are far above average. Meanwhile I have located
the [official installation
manual](http://www.lockss.org/locksswp/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/LOCKSS-Linux-Install1.pdf)
which recommends RAID storage and states that using a virtual machine is
possible.

