---
title : How to handle sensibly lossful digital long term preservation?
---
How to handle sensibly lossful digital long term preservation?
=====================
Is there an application, or a module/plug-in in a long time preservation
framework, which makes a storage system systematically lose information
you *don't* need any longer while preserving the data you *will* need
again in the future?

I think of a system that could distinguish accesses to data which
indicate that it was used (e.g. reading in a file for a longer time that
suggests that a user really reads it, or re-opening the same file
without using search in prior, or with a certain frequency per month,
year, ...) from accesses which are not likely to suggest the data to be
of any worth any more (e.g. virus scanners or search systems inspecting
those files or users flipping through files found from search results
for a short time only, then going on to the next hit suggesting they
didn't find the information they were looking for in them) and finally
forgetting / overwriting uninteresting data in case that storage becomes
short while keeping the worthwhile data.

I observe this for a couple of times whenever I migrated to new desktop
computer hardware, I kept a backup but usually I only need very few
things out of it later on, either because old software cannot be used in
a sensible way any longer (what to do with a DOS screen saver on
Windows?) or, for personal data, because of interests simply shifting.
(For example, I am no longer interested in things I cared for as a
teenager.) The same can be observed in libraries: It may happen that, if
you randomly pick a book from a shelf, its pages stick together,
indicating no one has read it for a couple of centuries.

Are there (problably software) approaches that address the problem of
sensible forgetting in digital age?

Paramaeleon

### Comments ###


Answer by Paramaeleon
----------------
[Freenet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freenet) is an open source
software that uses a decentralized distributed data store to store
information. Servers contribute memory from their own hardware to “the
net”, but the data store is limited to the sum of these contributions.
Whenever a user requests a file it is copied peer-to-peer, leaving
copies on the systems it passes. So files often requested are highly
available, files never requested fall off aback after some time.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
De-selection or disposal of unwanted data is a difficult challenge. Your
question assumes that data becomes less valuable the longer it remains
stored without access by a user. However, this is not always a good
measure of its value. Interest in data by users can remain low or none
existent for a considerable period of time, before current events or
some other triggers create new interest in the data, leading to a spike
in access. This is indeed quite common in library and archival
collections.

Manual de-selection can be very time consuming and costly, but automated
de-selection may not do the job of "sensible forgetting" well,
potentially putting important data at risk. Unfortunately there are no
easy answers.

### Comments ###

Answer by wizzard0
----------------
There are generally 2 approaches:

1.  "exponential memory", which assumes we know how to aggregate two
    pieces of data into one, maybe as simple as throwing one out, or
    averaging 2 data points

    -   for one year, we store 100 points of data, for next year we
        throw out 50, then 25 and so on

2.  "store everything", because the data volumes grow exponentially and
    storage becomes cheaper exponentially, so the total cost is limited
    even when storing infinite history.

Approach 1 needs cherry-picking of nontrivial data (such as books),
which can make it even more costly than approach 2. So, I vote to save
everything with the highest precision possible.

### Comments ###

Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
This system already exists - it's called the Internet! The popular,
widely used stuff gets copied, shared and re-shared. It won't get lost,
but then it will also be difficult to tell if it is authentic.

The main problem, however, is that only keeping the popular or
frequently used things may be too simplistic as a way of judging the
value of content. Is a resource most people use rarely more or less
valuable than a resource some people use daily?

Perhaps the popular, mainstream stuff will largely look after itself.
Maybe we should worry more about making sure the smaller, quieter voices
are not lost in the noise.

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: Actually, "the popular, widely used stuff gets copied, shared and
re-shared" is a misnomer. Most of what gets shared is \*links\*. Yes,
some people will download and store a local copy, and a very few might
put a copy elsewhere, but the vast majority of sharing does not create a
copy of the content, it only copies a reference to a specific copy of
the content in question. Just one relevant example: I was recently in a
discussion with some colleagues about streaming music services. I was
the only one who keep a local archive -- the others thought "I'll just
open Spotify and it's all there".
* Andy Jackson: Yes, fair point, although I think 'misnomer' is a bit harsh. I suspect
we don't really have much hard evidence on what fraction and type of
resources gets copied around and re-shared versus what only gets linked
and then lost.
* Paramaeleon: I think, this might work for content that has been put under an open
license, but not in general, because people might fear copyright issues
and therefore not republish the content. This leeds to another question:
[What is the copyrights situation for outcome of retro digitization? Can
or should one publish it under an open
license?](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/145/what-is-the-copyright-situation-for-the-outcome-of-retro-digitization)
* Andy Jackson: I think does apply to closed-license content, e.g. [Why history needs
software
piracy](http://technologizer.com/2012/01/23/why-history-needs-software-piracy/).

