---
title : What physical media format(s) are going to be easiest to open in the future?
---
What physical media format(s) are going to be easiest to open in the future?
=====================
For example, 8" floppy disks are not ideal because the rate of change in
storage technology has rendered them obsolete.

Given that that will continue to occur, what factors go into deciding on
future-proofing our backup media choices?

warren

### Comments ###


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
All media degrades over time, not even considering obsolescence of the
equipment itself. As a result, you have to be prepared to revisit your
technology choices on a regular basis.

So the best solution will take into account:

-   speed
-   reliability
-   media lifetime
-   cost per unit of data, and
-   total amount of data

Many organizations may find that a cloud solution such as CrashPlan
offers an extremely attractive solution for redundant off-site backups.
The cheap solutions (such as tape) can have hidden costs in terms of
time, convenience and risk of data loss. It is important for
organizations to be realistic and careful to insure proper redundancy.

### Comments ###

Answer by mjuarez
----------------
I don't think this can be answered categorically if it's an electronic
format. Like most hard questions, the answer correct here is **"it
depends"**.

The answer is going to depend on when you expect *"the future"* to be
at.

-   Is it 1 year? Normal storage, like USB and external hard drives, are
    probably good enough. Any of a number of on online storage services
    would also fit the bill here.
-   Is it 10 years? You'd need something that doesn't degrade over time,
    so magnetic media could be out of the question. Although there's
    stories of people firing up 8" drives and getting data off from old
    floppies, I wouldn't count on that. Something like storing your data
    on the [M-Disc from Milleniatta](http://www.mdisc.com), along with
    at least two or three DVD drives should be enough. USB seems to have
    staying power (and backward compatibility up to now), so you should
    be able to find a USB drive somewhere to connect it to.
-   Is it 50 years? Now it gets interesting. Think about this. 50 years
    ago, computers were only used by the government or big corporations.
    So, what will 50 more years do to computing? What we now know as
    "computers" might actually be invisible and wireless, so you'd have
    nothing to "read" your data with. Electricity should still be
    available (assuming no nuclear winter, asteroid hitting earth, etc),
    so maybe saving all your data on something like the M-Disc mentioned
    above, plus a fully functional laptop computer, with all the
    applications/drivers needed to read the data AND full instructions
    on how to use it (fifty years into the future, it might not be
    yourself that's reading the data), including electricity/voltage
    specs. At least you'll be able to read the data, even if you can't
    find a 50-year old computer by then (have you seen an old UNIVAC
    lying around these days? Yeah, didn't think so).
-   Is it 100+ years? At this point, honestly, I wouldn't trust any
    company's claim of "eternal", "permanent", etc. Also, I wouldn't
    trust there being electricity at all. From the archival/historical
    point of view, the only things that have withstood the test of time
    are well-cared-for papyrus/books, and carved rock (think the Rosetta
    Stone). You could think about printing all your data in binary
    format in archival-quality paper, and storing all that in an
    airtight container. Think big QR codes with lots of redundancy/error
    correction built in, and/or hex values. You'd have to make sure the
    printer/ink you use is permanent, doesn't fade, and doesn't get
    "sticky" over time. Make sure you include a plain-english (maybe
    even multiple languages) document specifying how to decode the QR
    codes if you go this way, and a basic explanation of hex numbers. A
    "primer" if you will.
-   Is it 1000+ years? Only carved rock has withstood thousands of years
    in the past. Even huge metal monuments have been melted down for
    ammunition and weapons, or stolen, while carved rock is usually left
    alone during times of hardship. You'd probably have to go with
    granite or maybe even pure quartz, along with a computer-driven
    laser and sandblaster. The language to use could be debatable, but
    you'd have to include a very basic primer (both numbers and letters,
    think ["Contact"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contact_%28film%29))
    to make sure people thousands of years from now are still able to
    decode it.


### Comments ###

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
It's better to think of media migrations instead of relying on a single
"best" format to ensure data integrity over time.

Preservation is an active process. No matter what format you choose,
magnetic, optical, ink, carved-into-stone, it will degrade over time.
Future-proofing data integrity requires that your storage technology
loses bits in a consistent, correctable manner over its service life,
and that you can migrate your data to a new media relatively easily when
that service life ends.

Given that, the best storage media for any organization today depends on
the budget and staff expertise of the organization. Larger organizations
like
[LDS](http://documents.el-una.org/923/1/ELUNA_2012_Presentation_Final_2012_5_7.pdf)
can afford a large tape array, while smaller organizations can get away
with a cloud service [Backblaze](http://www.backblaze.com/) or
[Crashplan](http://www.crashplan.com). Just remember to make it easy to
get your data back out.

### Comments ###
* Bill Lefurgy: Yes, this is exactly right. To this point, all media have proven very
short-lived.

Answer by dsalo
----------------
The ones that are easiest to audit and replicate data from. Silent
failure is deadly.

So, by way of example, spinning hard disks are better (yes, BETTER) than
gold CD-ROMs, because auditing spinning disk for error and incipient
failure is largely automatable and even automated. Copying from disk is
easy, including over the network.

Whereas CD-ROMs of whatever material require considerable and
expensive-to-automate physical futzing in order to audit or copy from.
Ergo they're rarely audited, ergo they become unopenable without notice.
File and forget.

### Comments ###

