---
title: "How to access Windows encrypted files after reformat?"
layout: default
---
How to access Windows encrypted files after reformat?
=====================
I encrypted some files using the encryption facility provided by
Windows. The files were on my hard disk. Now, I have formatted the
system and reinstalled Windows. Now the files have become inaccessible.
Is there a way the files can be accessed?

Manuj

Tags: <windows><encryption>

### Comments ###
* Robert Cartaino: Hi, Manuj, thank you for the contribution, but this question isn't
really related to the field of 'digital preservation.' It's a general
computer support question, best asked on [Super
User](http://superuser.com/faq). Sorry about the confusion.


Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
If you use the built-in NTFS encryption mode, then once you lose access
to the SAM database in Windows (which holds the user account details),
you no longer have access to the encryption/decryption key necessary to
decrypt the files. This is because the keys are stored in the SAM
database.

In reformatting, you lost access to the SAM database by normal means.

**So, the files are for all intents and purposes impossible to access
*on that media.***

If you have unencrypted backups, that's your best bet. Otherwise, I'm
afraid you are pretty much out of luck.

If you are *really* lucky, it *might* be possible for a data recovery
firm to access the data as it was prior to the reformatting, but I
really wouldn't expect that. Their focus tends to be physically damaged
media, not logically overwritten media.

### Comments ###

