---
title: "Comparative lifetimes of digital media"
layout: default
---
Comparative lifetimes of digital media
=====================
I'm looking for a collection of the most reputable sources on the
lifetime of various types of media (hard drives, optical discs, magnetic
tape, flash memory).

The ultimate question would be, what type of media is currently the best
option for long-term storage?

Dmitry Brant

<div class="tags"><span class="tag">storage</span><span class="tag">lifetime</span></div>

### Comments ###
* gmcgath: This is a difficult question, particularly with newer media that haven't
had their lifetimes exercised. Manufacturers sometimes make wild claims
that shouldn't be trusted. It's important not to confuse MTBF with
longevity; shelf life expectancy is a different thing from expected life
under constant use, extrapolated from brand-new media.
* luser droog: For way too much information, take a look at the [deadmedia
project](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead\_Media\_Project) archives.
* Robert Cartaino: Thank you for the question, but for reasons that are not immediately
obvious, I'm going to have to close this as unusually broad. We're here
to provide answers to questions about digital preservation, not
questions about where to find things on the Internet. See [more on this
here](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/27/101) — we
want to have answers, not links to answers. Thanks.


Answer by Courtney C. Mumma
----------------
Here is a good source for CDs and DVDs:
[http://www.cci-icc.gc.ca/publications/notes/19-1-eng.aspx](http://www.cci-icc.gc.ca/publications/notes/19-1-eng.aspx)
(CCI Notes N19/1 Longevity of Recordable CDs and DVDs (2010) , Canadian
Conservation Institute)re

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
Media lifetime is a red herring. All media types suffer from two key
problems:

1.  The media rots and gradually becomes unreadable
2.  The media technology (the devices needed to read the media) becomes
    obsolete

Write your data to some media and leave it on a shelf, and it will
eventually become damaged and/or impossible to read. When this happens,
you won't know. This is not a viable approach to long term digital
preservation.

To ensure the longevity of your data you need to repeatedly check that
it remains undamaged by verifying its integrity (this is easy to do by
creating checksums for your data and then periodically recalculating
your checksums in order to identify any data loss). If data loss is
detected, repair is necessary with the aid of a backup copy (or two).

This means that the critical media characteristic is accessibility, not
longevity.

For example, a manufacturer might claim that their specialist gold
CD-ROMS are guaranteed to last 100 years. However, in order to confirm
that their "guarantee" is in fact correct, you need to periodically
verify the integrity of the data. Sitting in front of a disc drive,
repeatedly inserting CDs so that you can do an integrity check every
month is not a lot of fun if you have a lot of data.

High capacity and easily accessible storage media (albeit storage media
with a limited lifetime) such as hard disk and magnetic tape remains the
long term storage media of choice.

Keep the data accessible. Keep at least 3 copies. Keep checking the
integrity of the data. Fix the data from a backup when necessary.
Migrate to new media when it reaches end of life.

### Comments ###

