---
title: "How can I recover old digital formats whose readers are no longer extant?"
layout: default
---
How can I recover old digital formats whose readers are no longer extant?
=====================
I was recently asked to help recover years of sermon and book notes from
a pastor friend. They were all done in WP5.1 and saved to floppy disks.

Given that I both do not have a floppy drive and no access to old word
processing software (specifically one compatible with WordPerfect 5.1),
what is the best way to recover this data?

Given the likelihood of similar requests arising in the future, what is
the best way *now* to start modernizing and maintaining my and others'
digital archives so they will always be readily referenceable?

warren

### Comments ###


Answer by Dmitry Brant
----------------
If the floppies are 3.5", then you could purchase a floppy
[reader](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16821105004)
that connects to a USB port.

And if the floppies are 5.25", you can still buy an old internal floppy
drive on Ebay, and use [this](http://www.deviceside.com/fc5025.html)
adapter to connect it via USB.

As for software, you can easily find ancient software on abandonware
and/or torrent sites (or still available for purchase). Even if the
precise version of WordPerfect can't be found, I would think that a
slightly later version would be able to open and convert the files.

If the software is too old to run in Windows, you may need to run it in
an emulator (such as DosBox). Fortunately, there are forums and FAQs for
pretty much every type of emulated system out there.

### Comments ###

Answer by luser droog
----------------
> what is the best way now to start modernizing and maintaining my and
> others' digital archives so they will always be readily referenceable?

As far as I can tell [PDF/A](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDF/A) is a
very well-considered format for archiving. It requires documents to
contain no external dependencies like fonts or images.

### Comments ###

Answer by Exlucid
----------------
I am going to agree with the recommendations above for getting the
content off the media. If possible use a USB device. I originally tried
to use a Ubuntu machine (9.04) but the kernel no longer Auto-supports
5.25 floppy drives. This is totally fixable but requires a bit of config
adjusting.

Remember that the FC5025 connected drive will need to be powered off of
your motherboard so be prepared to do a little tinkering. I recommend
finding some non-collection disks to experiment with before you try to
use media you might care about.

If the first drive fails, don't be discouraged. we went through several
drives trying to find one that worked.

Emulators are good, but you might be able to get what you are looking
for by opening the files in a text editor as well, this has proved
useful to me.

As for the future Digital Archiving, LOCKSS, a good migration policy,
and PDF/A seems to be the best practice.

If your a bit more concerned use MD5 checksums to ensure your data
remain uncorrupted.

As for wordperfect, looks to be a community
[here](http://www.wpuniverse.com/) that might be helpful.

### Comments ###
* walker: Re: configuring support for the floppy drive in the Ubuntu kernel - if
you do end up working on an Ubuntu version that that doesn't support
your floppy drive by default, I used [this
guide](https://justanotherwebblog.wordpress.com/2009/03/01/howto-use-floppy-in-ubuntu-810/)
to add the \`floppy\` module to the kernel, and it worked fine.

Answer by Christian Pietsch
----------------
The first thing I would do with old WP5.1 files is to open them in
WP5.1. I have recently found a copy of WP5.1 for MS-DOS on an
abandonware website, and it worked well within DosBox on Linux.

Probably the best way to preserve the original layout and formatting of
these documents is to print them from WP5.1 into a PostScript file that
can then be converted into PDF/A using separate, modern software. In
order to archive the contents, you could also save copies in Rich Text
Format (RTF) and plain text (which you should then convert to UTF-8
Unicode unless it is pure US-ASCII).

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: If the data is pure US-ASCII, then it already is valid UTF-8. Then, one
may just add a UTF-8 BOM to indicate that fact.
* Christian Pietsch: I know. Perhaps we should discuss the merits of adding the UTF-8 BOM
under a different heading. Suffice it to say that while Windows
generally adds a BOM, Linux generally does not.
* Michael Kjörling: I made an attempt at such a question over at [Should Unicode/UTF text
files include a
BOM?](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/52/97).

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
[Quick View Plus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QuickView) is a handy
tool that lets you view a large number of different file formats and is
pretty affordable. Here's [an archivist's take on using
it](http://digital-archiving.blogspot.co.uk/2013/02/in-praise-of-quick-view-plus.html).

### Comments ###

