---
title: "Are Usenet newsgroups a good way to preserve sniplets of publicly available information?"
layout: default
---
Are Usenet newsgroups a good way to preserve sniplets of publicly available information?
=====================
Usenet newsgroups are cached and duplicated by numerous servers, and
redundancy is a very important factor in preservation of data.

When it comes to sharing some trivia and local information, many
individuals are using blogs and CMS'es (content management systems). An
example could be the bulletin of a small sports community, with
information about the competitions, winners etc.

Is it a good idea to a create Usenet newsgroup, or use an existing
group, for sharing such information and preserving it for future
generations due to heavy duplication? Are really all Usenet messages
archived, starting from the beginning? Are the organizations storing
them planning to continue to do so in future? The time of Usenet seems
to be over, as it has been replaced by specialized fora and Q&As from
one side, and the social portals from the other.

lechlukasz

### Comments ###


Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
**I would not consider Usenet a viable archival strategy.** Not now nor
in the past. Yes, it's true that storage of content is distributed and
by design duplicated, but the control over such parameters as storage
time is entirely in the hands of third parties who may have no interest
in your particular content, and they are by no means *obliged* to
provide you (or anyone else, really) with access to their archives.

Not all of Usenet is archived. There are many hierarchies which are only
available in certain regions or to users of certain ISPs (or Usenet
server providers), and there are hierarchies which are generally
excluded from archiving (`alt.binaries.*` comes to mind). Also, you'd
probably be hard pressed to find a publicly available archive that goes
back a significant amount of time. DejaNews, which got bought by Google,
had a quite good archive, and I do believe that Google is allowing
access to all of it, but last I heard it wasn't really searchable in a
practical way.

NNTP (Network News Transfer Protocol, the protocol that Usenet clients
and servers use to talk to each other) is largely a best-effort
protocol. Not all news posts are guaranteed to be on every server
(though usually they do end up that way eventually), and they are not
guaranteed to be delivered to each server in the order of their
creation. Different posts may be delivered through entirely different
servers. This is all a product of NNTP's initial design, where it had to
run over such arcane transport protocols as UUCP as well as TCP/IP (and
many others; "everyone" running TCP/IP is a relatively new invention,
and now we are moving into a mixed protocol world again as we head into
a combined IPv4/IPv6 Internet).

I don't know exactly how the process would go for getting a new
newsgroup into the major archives. That would probably depend on their
configuration, which is a factor you don't control. You could contact
the administrators and ask for your group to be included if it doesn't
show up in their archives, but that's about it as far as control over
what is archived goes. The posts to be archived would still have to make
it to them, however and obviously, and they would almost certainly only
archive content from the point in time of inclusion of the newsgroup
into their archive. I don't see one Usenet archive(r/provider) going out
of their way to track down copies of previous posts.

Access for regular users is limited. While there are both free and
fee-based Usenet servers available to the general public, and software
is available for the taking, very few people these days are likely to
install and configure a NNTP client. So while technically most anyone
who has Internet access will be able to access Usenet if they put in the
effort, few people put in the effort.

### Comments ###
* Donald.McLean: Excellent summary of the situation. Good job.
* gmcgath: In the past couple of years some opportunistic politicians have been
attacking Usenet, giving hosts an excuse to drop a service that's little
used, so I suspect the availability of Usenet archives will continue to
decline seriously.
* luser droog: +1 Schooled me! I'll link to this back where I give this advice.

