---
title: "What are some advantages and disadvantages of outsourcing extraction/transfer of digital content from digital media?"
layout: default
---
What are some advantages and disadvantages of outsourcing extraction/transfer of digital content from digital media?
=====================
Organizations have the option of building the expertise to navigate the
intricacies of imaging and copying from extremely varied digital media
or outsourcing these tasks to other professionals who are already
experts (ie data recovery pros, forensics experts, digital video
preservation services). Assume that any outsourcing would be within
specific parameters assigned by the organization.

Courtney C. Mumma

Tags: <media><forensics><file-format-migration><imaging>

### Comments ###


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
Speaking as an individual who has a fair amount of content to convert
(home movies and family photos), there are basically two paths for
in-house conversion: professional equipment and minimalist equipment.

Professional equipment for converting some types of media (photos) can
be extremely expensive, but professional equipment is also much better
at handling large volumes.

Minimalist equipment is much less expensive and slower, and may also
produce lower quality results (depending on the media type and
investment).

Taking photos as an example, there are four types of solutions that I am
familiar with:

​a) desktop scanner - cost \$100-200

​b) automatic feed/work group scanner - cost around \$500

​c) DSLR and copy stand/table - cost \$1000 and up

​d) Professional scanner - cost (I don't know myself, but it's in the
\$10,000 or more range)

When I started to work on my own photo conversion project, I talked to a
senior editor at a photography magazine and his professional advice was
that solutions a and b would yield mediocre quality. On the other hand,
solution c would give results that were moderately close to d. Solutions
a and c are the slowest, b and d the fastest.

So when an organization is considering a conversion project, they first
have to figure out the quality, budget and schedule constraints that
they are working under. Then they have to determine if there are any
special factors, such as proprietary material that you don't really want
to have to ship out.

There are really too many possible scenarios to give any hard and fast
rules as to whether it's better to do it in-house or contract.
Organizations should do their research. Be realistic about the time,
cost and inconvenience, and it should become clear which solution is the
most cost effective.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: I believe the question is focused on recovering data from storage media
such as magnetic disks, magnetic tape, optical discs or other handheld
media, rather than referring to digitisation of non digital materials
(which I am guessing will be out of scope for this Stack). The term
"imaging" is referring to creating a disk image.
* Donald.McLean: @PaulWheatley It's very possible that you may be correct. If so, then
the asker needs to clarify. Getting good answers presupposes good
questions.
* Paul Wheatley: I believe digitisation is probably out of scope for DP stack, so this
may be a moot point (although adding "digital" as the penultimate word
to the question title would not do any harm). I've put a scoping
question onto meta,
[here](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/3/is-digitisation-on-topic)

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
The largest factor in deciding whether to outsource or to convert
in-house is the scale of the project.

Outsourcing is a variable cost. If the project expands in scope, the
costs will increase roughly linearly.

In-house digitization has a fixed cost (equipment) and variable cost
(staff time). If the project expands in scope, the fixed cost per
digitized object will decrease inversely while the variable cost will
increase roughly linearly.

This breakdown holds true for other assets. For instance, outsourcing
allows you direct access to expertise, at a price that scales with the
size of the project. Inhouse builds the expertise of your staff. The
larger the project the less the cost of this expertise, but also the
greater time staff will have to devote to the project.

At a given project size, it makes sense to invest in the equipment and
staff to keep a project in-house, but smaller projects will likely be
more economical to outsource.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
A couple of additional points to Nick's excellent answer...

Depending on the target of the data recovery, specialist equipment may
well be required which may be [excessively expensive and/or difficult to
obtain due it to being obsolete or simply in short
supply](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/1261/is-there-a-hardware-controller-option-for-acquiring-data-images-off-floppy-disks).

Utilising an external data recovery company means taking your data off
site. This introduces some degree of risk. This approach may be
impossible if you are dealing with sensitive data, or simply have an
organisational policy which precludes taking data off site.

### Comments ###

