---
title:If I break a book's binding to scan its pages, am I legally required to keep the book's physical remains to use the digital copy?
---
If I break a book's binding to scan its pages, am I legally required to keep the book's physical remains to use the digital copy?
=====================
Perhaps blasphemous to some, but if I break a book's binding to feed it
to a duplex scanner, am I legally required (in the US) to keep the
physical pages post-scanning in order to justify having the digital
version?

sean

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: This is an interesting question, but I don't really think this is a
digital preservation question. See the discussion on meta about
digitization questions that are in and out of scope.
http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/3/is-digitisation-on-topic
* sean: @Trevor: I did, but the top-voted answer says that digitization as part
of a preservation project is on-topic, especially as this pertains to
legal issues and not mechanics
* Ben Fino-Radin: @sean the top-voted answer (from Courtney Mumma), says that questions
about the preservation of the \*\*results\*\* (i.e. preserving the
digital assets) of digitization is on topic. This is still off topic
IMO.


Answer by wizzard0
----------------
I am not a lawyer, but I think in most jurisdictions you can get a
notary to assert the fact that you indeed owned the original books, and
then destroyed (and not sold, so no transfer of rights) them.

Then you can keep this notice instead of a whole stack of books in some
safe place. Not entirely effortless, but certainly easier than storing
all the paper.

### Comments ###

