---
title: "When is it legal/ethical to preserve website content?"
layout: default
---
When is it legal/ethical to preserve website content?
=====================
There is a known problem with the Wayback Machine regarding domain name
ownership - oftentimes, the domain changes hands, and the new owner
either puts a spam blog on it, or puts a robots.txt which forbids
crawling, and then WM promptly deletes the entire website history.

Is it legal to crawl and store personal copies of websites to protect
against this particular problem? or to build such an engine?

wizzard0

<div class="tags"><span class="tag">web-archiving</span><span class="tag">legal</span><span class="tag">digital-born</span><span class="tag">crawling</span><span class="tag">copyright</span></div>

### Comments ###
* Nick Krabbenhoeft: I think this is better as two questions. 1. How do spam websites affect
web crawlers like Heritrix? 2. What are the ethics of preserving public
websites without asking permission from the site owners?
* wizzard0: I split them, thanks!
* luser droog: Can you make them look more different? It's been flagged as a duplicate.
* Andy Jackson: Can I suggest an edit under a title along the lines of 'who is legally
allowed to archive website?' Or similar?
* Paul Wheatley: I agree with Andy. "Preserving website content" is not a question. needs
more specific explanation in the title.
* wizzard0: Renamed the question


Answer by Andy Jackson
----------------
Whether you as a individual have the right to take a copy of a website,
and for what purposes, and whether you can redistribute it, will be down
to you local copyright laws. I expect fair use/fail dealing exceptions
mean you can copy but not distribute, but YMMV.

Another option is to be aware that there is more than just one web
archive, each with different policies, so you could check for other
holdings or nominate the site for archival elsewhere.

**EDIT**

I notice you included the ethics issue when you updated the title. This
a very good point, and one that's not really been explored in detail as
far as I know (although this work on [Search Engines and
Ethics](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-search/) might be a
good starting point). Certainly, personally speaking, I'm not sure large
national web archives should be archiving Facebook as a matter of course
(for example), any more than we should be archiving everyone's email, or
digitising everybody's letters. Such personal information should be 'opt
in' only, IMO.

### Comments ###

Answer by mopennock
----------------
The ethical issues around web archiving are interesting and the ethics
of web archiving can vary from case to case. To judge whether a
particular case is ethical, you might want to consider:

-   Why do I need to take a copy?
-   Do I have or need the owner's permission?
-   Do I have or should I ask for permission of anyone else who has
    contributed to the site?
-   Is there any reason why the owner would not want me to have a copy?
-   What is the subject matter?
-   Who will have access to my copy?
-   How long do I intend to keep it for?
-   Can I keep it securely and if not, who might be affected should it
    be released back on to the live web?

There have been a few papers published in recent years:

-   '[Ethical issues in web archive creation and
    usage](http://iwaw.europarchive.org/08/IWAW2008-Rauber.pdf)' (2008)
-   '[Personal Internet Archives and
    Ethics](http://rea.sagepub.com/content/early/2012/09/07/1747016112459450.full.pdf)'
    (2012).

The latter is particularly relevant given the context stated in your
question.

### Comments ###
* Avery Payne: There are some sites that simply don't exist anymore. They were publicly
run, publicly available, and had various amounts of content on them.
Contacting them in this context and attempting to obtain permission to
capture that information for personal purposes would be a difficult, if
not impossible, process. A general rule of thumb I have used: if
Archive.org won't touch it, then don't bother.

