---
title: "Are questions about particular software applications relevant here?"
layout: default
---
Are questions about particular software applications relevant here?
=====================
I would like to say yes to this. I think this is a great place for very
technical discussion and Q&A and thus would like this to be a place
where people can ask and answer questions about software applications
typically used in digital preservation work.

We should try and avoid shopping list questions, however, I think it is
completely relevant to ask for advice on which particular tools do a
good job addressing particular preservation risks or threats.

Further, when it comes to digital preservation software applications
(JOVE, Fedora, DSpace, Archivematica, etc) or content management systems
that are used as defacto digital preservation systems (ex. ContentDM,
Omeka, etc) I think it is relevant to ask those questions here. Granted,
there will be questions that are so detailed with these applications
that the would be better fielded on application specific support-email
lists. In my mind, the litmus test should be if the questions and
answers would be useful things for folks working in digital preservation
to potentially know about or be aware of.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* gmcgath: The first one in that list is supposed to be JHOVE, right? :)
* Trevor Owens: Yeah, JHOVE I imagine all JHOVE questions would be fair game :)


Answer by luser droog
----------------
Yeah. That all sounds pretty reasonable, and it's consistent with the
practice on other sites (I *know* music.SE works like this).

I think the central issue for *good* shopping-list questions is "Is it
constructive?". It's all about the details. How to use particular
software for *on-topic* purposes, should be on-topic. What software
exists for *on-topic* purposes, should be on-topic.

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
I agree that questions about software apps **are** relevant here.
Software tools are a critical part of the digital preservation field, so
must be covered.

Completely open ended and non specific "shopping" style questions should
be pushed towards re-writes to ensure they are useful and constructive.
I would not like to see a really strict interpretation of the wider
Stack approach of being very anti-"shopping" question, which is seen on
many (though not all) Stack sites.

### Comments ###

Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
I'll echo the already existing **YES**, but also add *another* aspect to
the issue.

It becomes pretty hard to discuss digital preservation without
mentioning the file formats of various specific products (see e.g. [How
can I recover old digital formats whose readers are no longer
extant?](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/6/97) which
specifically mentions WordPerfect 5.1. Specific product advice then
becomes somewhat hard to *avoid* in a complete answer to a question as
asked, and a fully generalized question may not do the OP much good.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: I think that's fine. "I have file of obsolete format X, how do I view
it?" seems pretty core to what digital preservation is all about. Why
would there be a need to generalize in this case? If the specific
examples are removed, the question becomes somewhat academic and as such
not very helpful.
* Michael Kjörling: @PaulWheatley Exactly, but as the question title states \*are questions
about \*\*particular software applications\*\* relevant here?\*. I think
even only the above would make a pretty strong case for a yes.
* Paul Wheatley: Yes. Being specific on particular tools is I think a good thing for this
community.

Answer by Courtney C. Mumma
----------------
This is another yes, but from yet another angle. I think this could be a
'safe' place where people could ask questions about particular software
and tools they may not feel completely comfortable asking in the
application-specific email lists, which can be intimidating for even the
most savvy users.

### Comments ###

Answer by wizzard0
----------------
I vote for *yes*, with no limitation on "what software", but the
question should clearly explain how the particular usage of the software
is useful for digital preservation purposes.

e.g. "how to use ms word to save docs in future-proof formats" - OK,
"here is super duper library software, how do I promote it" - not OK.

### Comments ###
* Michael Kjörling: "how to use ms word to save docs in future-proof formats" can also be
objectively \*answered\*, assuming a version is specified; "here is
super duper library software, how do I promote it" cannot be objectively
answered.

Answer by Nick Krabbenhoeft
----------------
Coming from Michael's angle as well, allowing questions about preserving
software-specific formats can hopefully surface some migration chains
necessary to migrate formats into something legible/preservable. It
would link up nicely to the [Just Solve the
Problem](http://fileformats.archiveteam.org/wiki/Main_Page) project from
Archive Team.

### Comments ###

