---
title: "Do we want to be a high-voting site?"
layout: default
---
Do we want to be a high-voting site?
=====================
Some stack exchange sites get lots of both upvotes and downvotes for
question and answers. Others get much fewer votes. Do we want to be a
high-voting site?

Here is one perspective from [Scott
Morrison](http://meta.tex.stackexchange.com/users/77/scott-morrison)
over on
[meta.Tex.SE](http://meta.tex.stackexchange.com/questions/12/vote-early-and-often)
that I would support here:

> Every Stack Exchange site will eventually end up with a different
> "base level" of voting --- that is, the expected number of upvotes for
> a question of a given level of excellence. (This effect occurs because
> people see a good question, but already with a certain number of
> votes, and think "oh, I would have upvoted this, but it already has
> enough".)
>
> It's easy for us to affect this "base level" by encouraging high
> levels of upvoting now. We're setting the standards, and this really
> will have an effect.
>
> (On MathOverflow, we were very active about this early on,
> specifically encouraging all the initial round of users to vote early
> and often. You can compare statistics, and see that the average vote
> total for a MathOverflow question is much higher than on any of the
> other SE 1.0 sites.)
>
> In case it's not obvious: the rationale for wanting this base level to
> be high is that it provides better positive feedback to good
> contributors.

WilliamKF

### Comments ###
* sean: (This question needs to be highly-voted so as to reflect the consensus
of the site to vote highly.)


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
Oh, yes, please! There is nothing more discouraging than writing a
really good question or a really good answer - and then getting one, or
maybe two votes. On SO, I've had accepted answers that got ZERO upvotes
- not even one from the person who asked the question and accepted the
answer.

Which brings up another point - encouraging people asking questions to
accept one of the answers. It doesn't have to be right away - perhaps a
later answer will be better - but if the question has gotten at least
one good answer then one of them should be accepted no more than a week
or two later.

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: Agreed. I would add that actively downvoting or proposing closure of
off-topic questions, and commenting on the ones that need work, is of
equal important during this beta stage, so that we may set a high
standard of rigor.
* Michael Kjörling: I would upvote this twice if I could.
* Bill Lefurgy: I'll raise you one and wish for three upvotes.

