---
title: "Are legality questions on topic?"
layout: default
---
Are legality questions on topic?
=====================
[Preserving website
content](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/87/preserving-website-content)
asks about the legality of maintaining private copies of web sites in
order to protect against the possiblity that a new domain owner puts up
a robots.txt invalidating access to old content stored in the archive
(or causing it to be deleted).

Given that legality questions by definition are *localized* (they are
both *only relevant to a small geographic area* -- one political area,
such as a country or in some cases smaller areas -- and *a specific
moment in time* -- since laws change all the time), do we consideer them
on topic on DP.SE?

I would argue that based on the established definitions, legality
questions by definition are off topic.

Michael Kjörling

### Comments ###


Answer by sean
----------------
[Per meta.so](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/q/4818/183032), "too
localized" is more about having a discrete focus too narrow to be
interesting to the site's users. The operative word, then, would be the
"too" because "localized" by itself is all right.

If a series of similar questions arise for laws in every world country,
I can see the rationale for closing as too localized, but if the
jurisdiction is limited to a reasonable area, the nature of making
copies (ownership, copyright) and digital archiving are too intertwined
to reject all legal questions outright, especially on the basis of the
"too localized" flag.

### Comments ###

Answer by jcmeloni
----------------
Too localized makes sense, but I would think about just straight up
calling such questions off-topic, if for no other reason than it's what
we did at [The Workplace SE](http://workplace.stackexchange.com/) and it
allowed us to put a clear statement in our
[FAQ](http://workplace.stackexchange.com/faq) that (most) people
understand immediately:

> If a question requires a lawyer to answer it, we can't help. These
> situations are simply too specific and too complex to definitively
> answer on our site.

Because SE sites are about practical, *answerable* questions, and
anything related to the law is often both too localized in terms of
location and case specifics, *and* unanswerable unless someone is a
lawyer (who probably would be careful to answer in ways that did not
constitute actual legal advice), we declared questions off-topic to
avoid discussions as to why things are/are not localized, can/cannot be
suitably answered by a lawyer, etc.

(Source: I was an original Workplace moderator)

### Comments ###

Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
No, please do not close these questions on the basis of *"too
localized".* You still need to **decide if the *subject* is on topic at
all.** But too localized has been widely (mis)used to close just about
any question that mentions a place or time. An entire country, city,
state or any legal jurisdiction is *not* too localized. The timeframe
for a law in force is *not* too localized.

Too localized was designed for questions that cannot possibly be
answered because the situation is so… sooooooo unique that :

1.  Who cares?
2.  Is this even still an issue? and
3.  Is there even a chance it would ever benefit anyone else?

For the most part, just ignore the "too localized" close reason. You'll
know when it is needed. But we're working on some closed-question
changes that will mitigate this issue.

### Comments ###

