---
title : What recommendations are on topic?
---
What recommendations are on topic?
=====================
I see a consensus forming against scanner and resolution recommendation
questions in "[Is digitisation on
topic?](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/3/54)"

> ...questions focused on how to engage in digitisation, what types of
> scanners should be used or resolution to digitise at, will be off
> topic.^[1](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/3/54)^
>
> "What's the best scanner to use" and "what DPI should I scan at" seem
> obviously out of
> scope...^[2](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/a/20/54)^

I know that SE has a contentious relationship with recommendation and
["shopping"](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/a/4/54)
questions, usually supported by a lack of expert interest in giving
recommendations and that recommendation-giving is subjective, which
doesn't lead to creating definitive answers (a flag-able offense). I
would like to confirm what kinds of recommendations are off-limits.

sean

### Comments ###


Answer by Ben Fino-Radin
----------------
**Recommendation** isn't the problem at all in this case. The reason
these questions were flagged is that they sought advice on
*digitization*, not digital preservation. Amazingly, even in the
archival profession, *digitization* and *digital preservation* are often
conflated.

As the [Digital Preservation
Coalition](http://www.dpconline.org/advice/preservationhandbook/introduction/definitions-and-concepts)
so concisely puts it:

> *"Digital Preservation Refers to the series of managed activities
> necessary to ensure continued access to digital materials for as long
> as necessary."*

While digital preservation ought to be a consideration in any
digitization effort, these questions did not seem to be asked for the
purpose of gaining knowledge that would support towards maintaining long
term access to the digital objects – they simply seemed to seek best
practices for digitization.

### Comments ###
* sean: That discussion is more suited for that question. I'm asking about
recommendation questions pertaining to software, scanners, hardware,
whatever. Whether or not specifically [tag:digitization] is ultimately
allowed doesn't really impact this question
* Ben Fino-Radin: In that case, I believe the following question is nearly synonymous:
http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/1/are-questions-about-particular-software-applications-relevant-here?cb=1

Answer by gmcgath
----------------
Another area declared that so-called "shopping" questions are
off-limits, resulting in a ban on questions about what software would do
a given task. This was enforced in spite of repeated protests, and a lot
of people (including me) just quit that area. I don't want to see that
happen here.

### Comments ###

