---
title: "About that "link to studies" question"
layout: default
---
About that "link to studies" question
=====================
I recently closed a question called [Studies on media failure
rates](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/113/101). I'd like
to elaborate on exactly *why* these types of questions are closed for
being unusually broad.

> Please contribute! Links to studies on tape and DVD/Bluray media are
> especially welcome…

Stack Exchange is not a search engine or a collection of links. We're
here to provide definitive answers to questions about digital
preservation, **not questions about where to *find* things on the
Internet.**

If the question stood, the *"perfect answer"* would just link to another
site. I appreciate the effort, but there are two problems with this:

1.  It's not a real question. It doesn't reflect an actual problem that
    someone is *searching* for. All we've done is set up another
    stumbling block to folks looking for that information… elsewhere.
2.  Catch-all questions will displace a **lot** of good, specific
    questions that will be closed as a duplicate; "This has already been
    answered [here]" — except it *hasn't.*

Remember that search is the lifeblood of this site — and if someone is
searching for the "failure rate of CD-RWs", I sure would like them to
find ***this*** site. But overly generic questions do not help curate
the type of detailed answers where this site should excel — specific,
long-tailed questions with intriguing answers — questions that will
attract and hold the interest of the experts we are trying to appeal to.

Robert Cartaino

### Comments ###


