---
title: "Moving the Digital preservation questions from Stack Libraries Here"
layout: default
---
Moving the Digital preservation questions from Stack Libraries Here
=====================
There are currently [44 digital preservation tagged
questions](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/digital-preservation)
on the libraries SE. Many of these were posted by folks who worked to
get this site up and running. I think all of them are in scope and a
better fit for this site. We have already seen some questions pop up
here that have been asked and answered in that set of 44 questions and
it would be great if those were showing up in our "questions that may
already have your answer" list. So, do folks here think those questions
should come over here? If so, does anybody know what process there is to
bring them over.

Trevor Owens

### Comments ###
* jcmeloni: Unless there's something technically barring this, it \*should\* just be
a lot of mod migrations from there to here. You could have a chat with
the Libraries mods and then flag those 44 for migration, so there's a
record, but I'm sure that someone from the Community team has a better
answer and will see this, since they pay close attention to new sites
especially before pro tempore moderators are appointed.


Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
Definitely. Lets get them moved over. I think we need some admin help
from LIS Stack to do this.

### Comments ###

Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
While it's technically possible to migrate questions, the migration
paths are not set up until a site becomes well-established. But beyond
that technical limitation, building this community from the old,
pre-answered questions of *another* site would do **this** site a
terrible disservice. **That's not how you want to build this site.**

Forget for a moment that other site may not *want* their content removed
like that (along with the the knowledge and reputation earned). Consider
that, from day one, your brand new site will be **filled with old,
pre-answered anonymous questions,** as the original authors are off on
another site. Your tags will be inherited from another site, regardless
of how this community wants to organize content here. Comments would be
largely meaningless and scattered with links to another site. Voting
wont reflect the activity on *this* community, which makes it difficult
to build an avid higher-reputation community to watch over this site —
[Vote Early, Vote
Often](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/10/vote-early-vote-often/).

The idea of creating a site dedicated to Digital Preservation is to
build a community was supposedly not being well-served by *another*
site. I wouldn't rush to simply migrate someone else's content content.
Focus on building your *own* community. Give yourselves some time to
figure out the scope and culture of **this** site. You should focus on
building your *own* content with properly curated content, built with
the community and expertise that genuinely belongs here.

That was the point of creating this site in the first place.

### Comments ###
* jcmeloni: This is all absolutely True and Right. But I think that Trevor is
pointing out something that may be a bit unusual in SE-land: at a
glance, it appears there's a non-insignificant number of those DP
questions at Libraries that were asked and answered by people who are
\*already participating in this private beta\*; it wouldn't be a mass of
anonymous users (I'd want to take a closer look at that, though). Not to
put words in his mouth, but I think what happened is that the community
around the DP questions there \*is\* this one, because they went there
thinking that this site wouldn't get to beta.
* jcmeloni: Which is to say, is there room for a little Community help & wiggle room
in this regard, if the fledgling DP community gives some good arguments
here in Meta?
* Paul Wheatley: I agree with jcmeloni. There are lots of users from LIS Stack who were
asking DP questions there who are now involved over here. In fact they
are some of the most pro-active and committed DP Stack supporters as
they helped get DP Stack into beta! [This question was of course
considered
before](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/50/where-is-the-line-between-the-digital-preservation-and-libraries-stack-exchange),
and the conclusion was not to wait but to start asking DP questions on
LIS Stack.

Answer by mopennock
----------------
I had wondered this too. There's some really useful DP questions and
answers over there, which lots of people now on this site contributed
to. If we don't move them over, it's quite likely we'll see them being
asked again. I wonder if people will spend the same time answering them
(and therefore building rep here) if they have been done already.

Those questions would also give people a better idea of the type of
question that's suitable here, especially as there's been quite a few
'off topic' questions asked already and closed. A list of too many
closed or off topic questions might put other folk off. Having a more
comprehensive set of answered and legitimate questions helps even things
out.

### Comments ###

