---
title: "What function should this site serve in relation to the proposed Community Owned digital Preservation Tool Registry?"
layout: default
---
What function should this site serve in relation to the proposed Community Owned digital Preservation Tool Registry?
=====================
I'm thinking specifically about discussions regarding user experiences
with tools. I've seen some suggestions that COPTR could serve as a forum
for this kind of thing, which is great (and something we haven't seen
enough of). If we want to see discussions happening both places, do we
want to guide things in any way? For example, should discussions between
developers and "super users" be encouraged within the registry
environment rather than here?

Bill Lefurgy

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: Here's a [link to the COPTR
proposal](http://openplanetsfoundation.org/blogs/2013-01-08-creating-community-owned-digital-preservation-tool-registry-coptr).


Answer by mopennock
----------------
In part it depends on exactly what COPTR will do - will it purely be a
registry of tools, will there be associated user experiences, will there
be a user forum, etc.

Strictly speaking though, discussions should probably be directed to a
proper discussion forum rather than a Q&A stack. Extracted from the FAQ
-

\*'If your motivation for asking the question is “I would like to
participate in a discussion about **\_**”, then you should not be asking
here. However, if your vation is “I would like others to explain **\_**
to me”, then you are probably OK. (Discussions are of course welcome in
our real time web chat.)'\*

That suggests questions about specific tools could be answered here and
a link provided to the relevant section of COPTR, for example.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: User experiences will be added to COPTR primarily as hyperlinks. I could
imagine instances where links to Stack questions could be useful, but
agree with Mo's caution with regard to discussion etc.

