---
title : How can we encourage more specific questions?
---
How can we encourage more specific questions?
=====================
We're seeing lots of good questions on the new site but we're also
seeing lots of entry level questions, particularly ones that aren't
actually based on a real life problem the poster is facing. I realise
that people may be doing this to build up the site contet, but they're
missing the context to make them really useful and they're often fairly
open ended. This limits their value.

The private beta invite says the following:

*'Remember, you get the site you build! **Ask difficult, specific
questions** — the kind of questions pros and experts ask each other, not
the kind of questions novices ask pros, because a site full of pros and
experts will attract everybody, but a site full of novices rapidly
becomes boring. No easy questions, no survey questions, no polls, no
intro-level/basic questions, no unanswerable hypothetical questions.'.*

How can we encourage our community to focus on more specific, high
quality questions?

mopennock

### Comments ###


Answer by Ben Fino-Radin
----------------
> we're also seeing lots of entry level questions, particularly ones
> that aren't actually based on a real life problem the poster is
> facing.

High quality questions can be encouraged through the following actions:

1.  Upvote examples of good questions
2.  Downvote questions that are not helpful to the community

If a question that falls under \#2 just needs a bit of work, you should
comment on it with suggested edits. If you have editing rights, you
should simply improve the question yourself. If the question is beyond
help, you should show no hesitation in voting that the question be
closed (link beneath question). Questions can be closed for any of the
following reasons:

-   duplicate
-   off topic
-   not constructive
-   not a real question
-   too localized

**More importantly though**, the best way that we can ensure high
quality questions, is to rely on this stack exchange heavily in the work
that we do. When you have specific, expert level questions that you
would typically bring to a colleague or trusted peer in the community –
bring it here instead. Send beta invites to people you would usually
email questions to. Furthermore – if you work through a problem
"offline" with one of your colleagues, and you think that it is a
question that is not too specific and will be useful to the community,
post the original question here, and have your colleague answer the
question. I've done this on SO with problems we've worked through at
Rhizome.

### Comments ###
* Paul Wheatley: Lots of good suggestions there Ben. I'd like to emphasize editing and/or
suggesting ways to improve questions. A new Stack brings new users, and
we need to help them ask good questions in a positive and encouraging
way. We aren't going to be a huge community for this Stack, so we need
as many contributors as possible,

