---
title: "Are research questions acceptable?"
layout: default
---
Are research questions acceptable?
=====================
The site FAQ says 'You should only ask practical, answerable questions
based on actual problems that you face.' Can we or should we include
research questions in that (perhaps depending on how much contextual
information the OP provides), or should they be ruled off topic?

mopennock

### Comments ###
* Donald.McLean: What do you mean by a "research question"?
* mopennock: This q, for example -
http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/207/is-it-impossible-to-produce-old-electronics-in-new-factories
- part of a research project or PhD. So it's not a problem in a current
professional, working context, but a it's a problem being considered in
the context of a piece of research.


Answer by Donald.McLean
----------------
The proper constituency of this site does not consist entirely of
professional preservationists. Therefore, the scope of allowable
questions does not consist entirely of those questions relating to
"professional, working" contexts.

I see no reason why research questions would now be welcome. I also
think that amateur questions should also be welcome. I can't see any
reason why we should exclude members of any group that have questions
that are otherwise on topic.

### Comments ###
* mopennock: Suggest we amend the FAQ then. Current text is as follows: Q: What kind
of questions can I ask here? A: Digital Preservation Stack Exchange is
for professionals working to ensure long term access to digital
objects.'
* Paul Wheatley: @Donald: Do you mean "I see no reason why research questions would
\*not\* be welcome."?

Answer by gmcgath
----------------
I think research questions, in the sense defined in your clarifying
comment, are definitely on topic, all other factors allowing. I further
agree that the FAQ should not say this area is professionals-only. If we
don't allow students, where are future preservationists going to go?

### Comments ###
* Donald.McLean: Nicely worded! +1
* Paul Wheatley: +1 from me too. This is really important stuff for shaping the DP stack
community. Although I would note that the question Mo quoted on
re-producing old electronics was out of scope for DP Stack for other
reasons.

