---
title: "What constitutes an accepted answer?"
layout: default
---
What constitutes an accepted answer?
=====================
While the this SE is seeing much activity, I have noted a significant
amount of questions with high activity, and many good answers, yet
lacking a selected **best** answer.

I wonder if this is due to the complexity of many of the questions, and
the asker's reluctance to accept one perspective as the "final word" so
to speak – or if it is due to the fact that many of the digital
preservation practicioners here may be new to the SE format, and do not
realize that they are actually oblid as the asker to select the best
answer. Otherwise this SE becomes a pile of unanswered questions – not
an invaluable knowledge base.

So – the question (and the purpose of this question is partially to
simply call attention to the problem) is: What constitutes a **best**
answer?

Ben Fino-Radin

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">accepted-answer</li><li class="tag">best-answer</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Donald.McLean: It has been my experience that even on established SE sites that users
frequently do not accept an answer.


Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
Have a look at this blog post — [**OK, Now Define
“Answered”**](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2008/09/ok-now-define-answered/).
The "accepted answer" feature does serve the purposes you are
attributing to it, although it's not uncommon for users to conflate
these unrelated issues:

1.  'Accepted' is not *answered* —\
     The site isn't filled with ***unanswered*** questions if the author
    does not tick one of them off. A question issidered "answered" when
    it receives an answer with at least one up-vote… at least as far as
    the 'unanswered' tab goes.

2.  'Accepted' is not *best* —\
     The author doesn't determine the "best answer" by ticking it off.
    The ***best answer*** is determined by the community vote.

3.  'Accepted' is only *thanks* —\
     The "accepted answer" is simply the answer the author found most
    **helpful to *them***. This is a simple social convention we use to
    close the loop between the person asking and the person answering.
    Accepting an answer is not meant to be a definitive and final
    statement indicating that the question has now been answered.

Personally, **I really dislike the "accepted answer" feature** precisely
because of the misunderstandings you've raised. First, despite the
community voting/vetting of the answers, **one user** pushes an answer
to the top — pushed by the user ***least*** likely equipped to recognize
the best answer in the first place. That's what the community vote is
supposed to be for.

Second, when an answer is accepted, it gives *every* indication that the
issue has been resolved and **no further input is needed.** The
lifecycle of a question and its answers are supposed to go well beyond
helping the original author. Answers can (and should) continually be
improved. But when the author selects the *best answer* (sic) or the
*correct answer* (sic), it tells everyone who comes after *"thanks, your
help is no longer needed here — I've moved on."* That's not what it is
*supposed* to do, but that's the reality of how it is perceived. *"Why
should I add an answer? One has already been accepted."*

So, to answer your question — an 'accepted answer' is nothing more than
the original author checking in and picking which answer best helped
*them* personally; nothing more.

### Comments ###

