---
title: "Digital Preservation SE will close on March 18"
layout: default
---
Digital Preservation SE will close on March 18
=====================
We are coming up on two weeks in private beta. I regret having to say
this, but based on the current Q&A and activity levels it doesn't look
like this site is going to make it.

Why? Well, we see a couple of primary issues here:

**The turnout and the activity are very low.** Only 24% of the folks who
committed to this proposal actually joined the site. Only about a fifth
of those people are actually posting questions and answers. When we look
at meta, that number gets even lower.

A Stack Exchange site cannot thrive unless there's a dedicated and
passionate community behind it.

**There doesn't seem to be a clear direction for the site's scope** and
there is a fair amount of disagreement within the community here on what
actually belongs on the site. Out of the 79 questions currently posted,
only 57 are still open.

Normally scope issues could be something worked out during beta.
However, the purpose of the private beta is to set up a site that's
ready to welcome users from the general public and has worked out all
but a few minor issues. The concerns here, unfortunately, are more
fundamental than that.

Judging by the meta discussions and the example questions on the Area 51
proposal, it seems fairly clear that this proposal was backed by several
distinct groups of people, and "digital preservation" means something
different to all of them. To some, it means asset management within a
company. To others, it's about preserving legacy software. To others
still, it is about manipulating file formats. The end result is that
none of these groups is served well by the site we have now.

We have sites that may welcome the different factions of Digital
Preservation. For example, general questions about file formats could
likely land on [Super
User](http://superuser.com/questions/tagged/file-format), while issues
of long-term preservation of content would not be out of place on
[Libraries and Information
Science](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/tags/digital-preservation/info).

That doesn't mean that there cannot or should not be a separate site
handling these topics, but unfortunately, as it stands, *this site isn't
it*. Barring any act-of-god scenarios, the site will be closed on March
18th and the data archived for download. That should give you sufficient
time to save your favorite posts and discuss ideas about how to move
forward.

This doesn't have to be the end. If you still believe this subject can
work, feel free to try again through Area 51. We simply have to explore
the harder questions of what this site is about, and to figure out how
to regain (and retain!) all the support lost from the original proposal.
If the support is there, your efforts should go quickly the second time
around. If not, perhaps it wasn’t meant to be.

Good luck!

Anna Lear

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">featured</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* raffaele messuti: the current content will be lost? any way to make it exportable and
downloadable?
* Anna Lear: @raffaelemessuti It will all be available for download in XML format
from Area 51.
* Ross Spencer: Voted down. What is an 'act of god scenario' and also, without going
into Public Beta I feel this site hasn't been given a fair chance. While
I haven't been able to follow up my commitment for personal reasons, I
am aware a bit of work needs to be done to influence our community to
participate in this site - I know there are people itching to see it in
Public Beta and further, more they can influence once it is there.
* Andy Jackson: This does seem a little cruel and short, given how long it took us to
build the Area 51 proposal, but I concede the take up has been
disappointing. Is there any chance of moving the good questions over to
the digital-preservation tag on the LIS SE?
* Anna Lear: @AndyJackson If you see a question that should be preserved and fits LIS
(or any other site), flag it and let us know, and we'll take care of it.
* Ross Spencer: Further, @anna-lear - you have defined two distinct spaces for these
questions, and indulge the concepts of 'factions' of Digital
Preservation - well, if you stick those 'factions' together, you get an
open, and transparent world for those valid 'factions' where they can
float these questions and get answers... i.e. Digital Preservation Stack
Exchange.
* Ben Fino-Radin: I agree with @RossSpencer, a two week private beta is absurdly short
given how long the Area 51 proposal was given to develop.
* Ben Fino-Radin: @AnnaLear, your interpretation of the users is rather tone deaf. Are
many users coming from different areas of practice? Yes. Does this
render the site a useless pile of disagreements? Of course not. Have
there been a surplus of poorly asked, questions? Absolutely, but that
has nothing to do these "factions" you see.


Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
*As expressed a few times in the comments above:*

> *"…given how long the Area 51 proposal was given to develop"*

That is likely part of the problem. Less than a third of the folks
*"committed"* to this site showed up for the beta. That is a new,
**all-time low!** in participation and support.

To build a successful site, you'll definitely need more of a running
start to make it viable. This subject is all over the place. By time we
start slicing off the stuff that doesn't belong here, there's even
*less* to work with.

If you still believe your site will work, restart the proposal. I mean
that sincerely; this is not busy work. **It is a proven way** to
re-capture the focus, the enthusiasm, and the support lost somewhere
along the way.

### Comments ###
* Ben Fino-Radin: "That is likely part of the problem." Indeed. It would appear to be a
design flaw in the Area 51/SE Beta process.

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
I'm very disappointed with this outcome and decision. A lot of the
enthusiasm we need has happened here: [Digital Preservation Questions on
LIS
Stack](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/digital-preservation)
(the most popular topic on that stack). [We had been under the
impression](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/50/where-is-the-line-between-the-digital-preservation-and-libraries-stack-exchange)
that [moving this earlier work across to the DP
stack](http://meta.digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/questions/30/moving-the-digital-preservation-questions-from-stack-libraries-here)
would be a good thing. But then nothing happened.

I thought the scoping issues we're being worked through with lots of
lively but positive debate. I was putting lots of effort into helping
with this. It would have been useful to have had some moderator help to
enable editing of the FAQ and a formalisation of the result of meta
discussions.

Regardless, with such a small follow through from the Area 51 commit, to
seeing it through and getting involved, these other issues are academic.
I guess us enthusiastic types have to just go back to [LIS
Stack](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/digital-preservation).

### Comments ###

Answer by Michael Kjörling
----------------
I don't have easy access to the numbers, but let's look at what you are
saying in your post.

> Only 24% of the folks who committed to this proposal actually joined
> the site.

This is arguably a very poor turnout no matter how you slice it. In raw
numbers, that's right around 90 people.

> Only about a fifth of those people are actually posting questions and
> answers.

I take it you mean about 20% of the people who committed. So 75 people
are actually active on the site. That's close to 85% of the people who
actually did join, which doesn't sound too bad to me. Certainly there
are more than 20-ish people who have posted questions or answers here.

> When we look at meta, that number gets even lower.

Isn't that a common theme, though? Especially given that if someone has
already stated what amounts to your opinion, an upvote on the question
and/or answer expresses that?

> Out of the 79 questions currently posted, only 57 are still open.

75 people have posted 79 questions in two weeks, and of those, 57 are
still open. That's about 0.4 still open questions per active participant
per week (or about 0.5 questions asked per active participant per week).
I certainly don't ask one question every two weeks on StackOverflow.

**It seems to me like a two week private beta period is much too short**
from which to draw any firm conclusions about the site's long-term
viability. Right around three weeks from when I received the private
beta invitation email and the announced closure date.

> Judging by the meta discussions and the example questions on the Area
> 51 proposal, it seems fairly clear that this proposal was backed by
> several distinct groups of people, and "digital preservation" means
> something different to all of them. To some, it means asset management
> within a company. To others, it's about preserving legacy software. To
> others still, it is about manipulating file formats.

The only real guidance thus far is the FAQ (and those very meta
discussions). The FAQ simply says that "Digital Preservation - Stack
Exchange is for
`professionals working to ensure long term access to digital objects`."
I'd argue that the examples you list all pretty much fall into that
category, given appropriate form. You can't find something efficiently
without some form of asset management in place, and an unsearchable
archive is effectively useless. Preserving legacy software may be an
inherent part of the ability to ensure that information is useful, not
just accessible as bits of data, in the future. Discussions about file
formats fall well into that, too; if you're going to migrate data to
another file format for long-term preservation, you don't want to have
to re-do that work in five or ten years if you can avoid it,
*particularly* if the conversion is *potentially* lossy.

Of course, one could always argue that asset management is equally
applicable to libraries regardless of the type of asset in question (and
thus a "better" fit for LIS), that questions about various file formats
is a general computer question (making it a "better" fit for e.g.
SuperUser) and so on. But that assumes that there are no DP-specific
issues at hand because, frankly, how many digital preservation experts
hang out on SuperUser on the off chance that someone asks about the
[century-long prospects of various image file
formats](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/32/97) or [long
term storage of disk
images](http://digitalpreservation.stackexchange.com/q/151/97)?
(Shameless plug; taking two examples of questions I have answered and
which are still open on DP.SE.)

**I do believe this site deserves more than two weeks of private beta
before being declared non-viable.** Maybe it'll turn out that it indeed
isn't viable as-is, or that the scope is too broad. But it seems much
too early to make such a firm statement. If the site needs more work
before going public beta, I'd argue that a longer private beta period to
actually hash out those issues is a better alternative than killing it
outright.

### Comments ###
* Anna Lear: "I take it you mean about 20% of the people who committed." - no, I
meant about a fifth of the 90 committers. Far as two weeks being too
short goes, the vast majority of sites only need one week to display a
cohesive community and create the initial content (usually on the order
of 100+ questions).
* Michael Kjörling: @AnnaLear Wait a second, were there 90 committers or the 377 that my
private beta invitation email claimed? That's a massive difference.
* Anna Lear: 377 committers total, 91 that actually signed up on the site.
* Michael Kjörling: @AnnaLear So just to be completely clear, "about a fifth" of 91 (18
people, give or take) have posted 79 questions in two weeks (2.2
questions per person per week)?
* Anna Lear: I haven't looked at how many of those users posted questions, but 18 for
the number of people that I'd call active users sounds about right.

Answer by Nicholas Webb
----------------
Like many users who were "regulars" during the public beta, I'm
disappointed in this outcome. If there's a statistical threshhold
beneath which proposed sites are considered not viable, I understand,
but the quality of discussion here was IMO quite high and worth
reflecting on. (Disclaimer: I'm a StackExchange noob, so I don't know if
similar issues have been discussed in the context of other stacks.)

Even during its short lifespan, I learned a great deal from this stack,
and I agree with Ben's objection to the description of differing views
as "factions." Given time, I think that we could have developed a clear
and reasonable definition of the site's scope.

Digital preservation is an emerging field that overlaps with a number of
different disciplines and skill sets. Different practitioners understand
the field differently -- but it's very helpful to be able discuss and
apply these understandings *in the context of practice*. This is an
opportunity to move the field forward and (perhaps) resolve some of
those differences. Direct engagement with other practitioners'
day-to-day problems helps reveal and clarify the underlying assumptions
of our shared discipline.

As the title of a recent symposium put it, there's a "[Digital Curation
Gap](http://sils.unc.edu/events/2013/closing-digital-gap)" between
researchers at large institutions and the on-the-ground practice of
working LAM professionals. I'm an archivist in a small repository with
limited resources. Although I try to keep up with the professional
literature, I'm not directly involved with any major academic or
governmental research projects. I found participation in the stack
useful both in sharpening my own understanding and in confirming the
correctness of my practice by helping to solve other people's problems.

I realize that Stack Exchange isn't the best forum for thornier
questions of professional identity, but I do think that (as Ross and
other commenters have alluded to) this stack had the potential to
provide a service beyond simply being a problem-solving resource. I'm
not aware of any other spaces in which this sort of informed but
practical discussion is taking place. (If there are, let me know and
I'll join!)

If there's an attempt to restart the stack in the future, I'd be happy
to up the level of my involvement. In the meantime, I'll monitor the
digital preservation tag on the LIS stack.

### Comments ###

