---
title : Are questions about finding specific types of libraries on topic?
---
Are questions about finding specific types of libraries on topic?
=====================
There have been a couple questions today about wanting to find a
specific type of library for a specific purpose.

I find that these questions aren't too useful, considering it is going
to vary widely based on where the asker is located, and what specific
thing they are looking for - it seems like these sorts of questions
would be too localized, or not constructive.

Thoughts? Opinions?

Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###
* dsalo: I've seen other Stack Exchange properties handle this, at least in part,
by turning commonly-asked "type" questions into wiki pages. (See e.g.
the bicycling site's wiki page about bicycle transport on public transit
in cities worldwide.) Would that be feasible for the questions you're
seeing?


Answer by KatieR
----------------
While geography is a factor with specific libraries, Interlibrary Loan
can be very useful in overcoming that barrier, as well as directly
contacting the library itself.

I think it is important to know what libraries are in existence because
often times the smaller and very specialized libraries are the ones that
get overlooked and forgotten. By creating and answering questions about
specific types of libraries and their purpose, we are collecting this
information into one place which is the purpose of stack exchange.

So, I think it is important to ask and find specific libraries of
specific types.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: It is important to know how to find specific libraries of specific
types. But this is \*one single question\* that should not be repeated.
* Kode: I think this begs the question "What can we provide that a google search
can't?" The answer, I think, is not much. Part of being a library is
promotion and to that end I can't think of a reason for a library not to
have a web presence of some kind in this day and age.
* Joe: @Kode: Well, with that argument, who needs librarians? Google search can
do it all, right?

