---
title: "How and When do we get the ALA involved in this site and how involved do we let them get?"
layout: default
---
How and When do we get the ALA involved in this site and how involved do we let them get?
=====================
Obviously the American Library Association is a big organization and
their involvement could be a massive boon to our community.
Alternatively it could end up being a boondoggle and waste of time. I'm
sure others have more experience dealing with the ALA and I'd wager we
probably have some ALA members or staff on the site already. So, what do
we do about the ALA and other such professional organizations?

Kode

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">site-promotion</li><li class="tag">us</li><li class="tag">ala</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* blunders: +1 @Kode: Huge fan of site promotion, and agree that having ALA as a
partner might be a huge help. That said, having help do marketing and
partnership deals with associations: (1) what would we as a site have to
offer ALA? (2) or, we need members that know (or are willing to attempt
to develop relationship with) someone within ALA that's able to act on
behalf of the site in a meaningful way.
* Ed Summers: Why involve ALA at all? I can see promoting it there, but I wouldn't
like to see ALA and or one of its committees exerting some sort of
editorial influence here.
* blunders: @EdSummers: Agree, about ALA influence, though it's possible that for
whatever reason they'd promo the site without asking for anything in
return. To make that choice though, they first have to be aware the site
exist.
* KatieR: I agree with @EdSummers and ALA influence.
* Joe: But it's "Libraries and Information Science" ... what about
[ASIS&T](http://www.asis.org/) to cover the 'and Information Science'
bit? (I'm a member of both, but I actually go to the ASIS&T conferences)
I'd say to include SLA, too ... but they wanted to rename themselves to
'[ASKPro](http://www.libraryjournal.com/article/CA6711116.html)', so I'm
not sure what they'd try to do here. And there's also
[ARMA](http://www.arma.org/).


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
Well, if nothing else, it should most likely wait a while - we want to
get our site established and running, decide the scope, what is on/off
topic, etc. before we rush out and get big groups like ALA interested

### Comments ###

Answer by jambina
----------------
i say spread it to all of our networks (loudly! and talk about how
useful this forum is!) but the beauty of stackexchange is that we can do
this - ask questions, solve problems, start revolutions - without any
association involvement. refreshing, no? (and i love me some SLA, so
don't think i'm anti-association or anything.)

### Comments ###

Answer by Peter Murray
----------------
My question would be "ALA corporate" (e.g. the staff at 50 E. Huron in
Chicago), "ALA organization" (e.g. the folks the membership elect to do
things), or "ALA members" (e.g. dues-paying folks)? I think of Stack
Exchange sites as communities onto their own, so direct involvement by
the first and second could cause friction if their goal is to regularize
and integrate with other ALA activities. The third are most welcome to
join and shape this community.

-- From a 20-year dues-paying member of ALA

### Comments ###

Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Coming from an overseas point of view, ALA can be involved, but if so,
we should also extend the invitation to ALIA, CILIP and others.

I would prefer that responses came from individuals rather than
entities, but it would be good to use the resources of our national
organisations to keep the list of participants varied and the answers
informative!

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Yep! From my perspective, ALA is far away and IFLA may be a better
target.
* Deborah Mould: Agreed Jakob. The best point about these forums is that we can tap into
experiences around the world, so IFLA would be a logical place.

