---
title : Policy on 'Book Recommendations'?
---
Policy on 'Book Recommendations'?
=====================
It seems that we have a tag for
[book-recommendations](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/book-recommendations),
the first use of which was more about building such a service, than
actually asking for a recommendation.

The [second use is asking for specific
recommendations](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/802/books-on-human-condition-philosophy).

In the definition phase of the site, the third highest ranked question
was [fairly
similar](http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/12432/libraries-information-science/13319#13319),
as it's looking for books that match a given requirement, but may be
more objective as it isn't asking if they're necessarily any good. It
doesn't meet that 'only one right answer' that the folks running Stack
Exchange seem to have convinced themselves are the only good type of
questions.

Where should we draw the line on this class of questions? If these
questions aren't acceptable, are there ways to ask a question to get a
useful answer that would be acceptable?

**Update:** I would assume that it'd be okay to ask if there exist
recommended reading lists for a given topic for an age group or skill
level. I'd say it's on topic, and I'm guessing others would do it you
tagged it 'collection-development' instead of 'book-recommendations'.
It's not really that different of a topic, and it again runs the risk of
having more than one correct answer ... but I personally think it would
be the sort of thing that we'd want on here.

Joe

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: We came to a sort of conclusion here:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/84/22
* Joe: @Ashley : and that was basically 'book recommendations are bad' ...
which I agree (I don't agree on list-answerable questions as a whole). I
guess I'll update to give an example ...
* M. Alan Thomas II: Not directly related, but I wanted to point out
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/q/116/345 as belonging in a
cluster with this as the question linked above.
* Joe: And the real example gives us our first test:
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/878/selecting-books-about-computers


Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
The tag 'book recommendations' definitely implies that a specific book
or group of books meets an individual need, e.g. a book about divorced
dad who own a goat. They are questions that are probably unique enough
for another site to be created, and would attract a lot of bibliophiles
whose interest is in specific content.

How books can be selected to meet a certain audience falls into the
'collection development' arena. I think that the phrasing has to be
right however, and it is the focus on the library users - rather than
just a reference question for a single person - that will separate these
two issues.

### Comments ###

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
Given prior discussion here
(http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/84/345) and the fate of
Literature.SE, I'm going to have to go on record as supporting the
consensus (however much I disagree with it) that providing professional
Reader's Advisory is off-limits and general book recommendations even
more so. Per the question and Deborah Mould's answer, however,
collection development questions are valid but subject to a different
tag.

We do need a "head" question type to draw people in for our "long tail,"
but this isn't it.

### Comments ###

