---
title: "Is 'What does your library do?" an appropriate sort of question here?"
layout: default
---
Is 'What does your library do?" an appropriate sort of question here?
=====================
I have noticed that there are [a couple
of](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/793/what-do-academic-university-libraries-do-with-back-issues-of-journals)
[questions
appearing](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/761/if-your-library-requires-patrons-to-have-a-library-card-to-use-the-computers-do)
where people are essentially asking for lists of answers regarding what
"your library" does in a particular situation.

These questions are somewhat problematic because there is no real answer
to them - they are just going to be endless discussion style responses
because there is no way to pick a true answer - you can't say that
Library X does it better than Library Y, essentially, because of how the
question has been asked. There is no way to select one answer as being
the one true right answer, because they are all equally valid. They all
respond to the question of "what does your library do".

These questions are more suited for the realm of discussion and forums,
which [Stack Exchange is
not](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/92107/is-stack-overflow-a-forum/92115#92115).

I understand that we, as professionals in the Library and Information
Science field, have a great interest in knowing how other groups do
things, especially when formulating new policies in your own
institution. Problem is, while sharing ideas and such is a great thing
to do, it is not a really good fit for Stack Exchange.

What can we do to make these questions more on-topic, following the SE
model? Can we do anything? Or should they just be closed?

Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: I notice that you linked to a question of mine that I made /more/ that
way after Mary Jo Finch complained that I was asking for raw opinion too
much. ("Constructive objective questions [. . .] invite sharing
experiences over opinions.") I may have gone to far, though, or not
altered the rest of the question enough to match. I respectfully submit,
however, that this is a matter of tone and can be fixed. Would you have
a suggestion along those lines?


Answer by Joe
----------------
So here's the fallacy of the 'only one right answer' type question.

There's always more than one way to do things. The 'correct' answer that
gets marked in Stack Exchange isn't necessarily the one that best
answers the question (as a better answer might be given after another
answer has been marked as correct)

So, what we're really asking is, 'does anyone else have a workable
solution to this problem?' or 'what are my options for dealing with this
situation?', and then choosing the one that you believe best fits your
circumstances (which may or may not be reflected in the question asked).

I've had times when I've marked a question as correct, as it looked
correct on the surface, but it was more pseudocode, and was missing the
outer calling structure ... and when I actually got the necessary bits
to run it I found my performance went from 10k operations per second to
1 per second. Had I been more skilled in Postgres, I might not've marked
the answer as correct, and left it open in hopes of more answers that
might've solved the problem.

So, my answer :

-   These answers should not be closed
-   The 'SE model' is based on incorrect assumptions that will never be
    met.
-   It might be possible to reword the questions based on what I think
    is being implied (above) to make it 'more acceptable', but it still
    won't really fit.
-   If people think the question is overly broad, they can post comments
    asking for relevant clarifications to narrow the question down.

(and if the Stack Exchange people think I'm off base on the no correct
answer thing, go and take a look at the most recent questions on Stack
Overflow -- every 'how can I get this to work?' or 'how can I do (x)?'
question fits, the only difference is with software, we can verify it's
an acceptable answer with a quick compile & test)

### Comments ###
* dsalo: Agree entirely.
* dsalo: (If you're tempted to upvote my comment, please upvote Joe's answer as
well!)
* jonsca: I would say most of the \`'how can I get this to work?' or 'how can I do
(x)?'\` questions get closed as either too localized or not
constructive. The latter is prime for getting equally valid answers from
anyone who happens to pass by.
* Joe: @jonsca : and yet, those are the majority of posts on StackOverflow ...
but the difference is, with software, someone can typically test it and
confirm if the answer works for them or not within 24hrs.
* jonsca: @Joe I think you're missing the point, though. The ones that attract 50
answers don't stay open, and for good reason. For better or worse, this
is the system that Stack Exchange has found that avoids junky questions
and extended discussion. I don't think we're going to buck that here,
there's no precedent for it.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
There's a very fine line to be drawn between questions where that's an
okay thing to include and questions where that's not. This is
essentially the same line as the one between good, constructive,
subjective questions and bad, non-constructive, subjective questions.
For example, from "[Real Questions Have
Answers](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/real-questions-have-answers/)":

> Constructive subjective questions:
>
> 1.  inspire answers that explain “whyand “how”.
> 2.  tend to have long, not short, answers.
> 3.  have a constructive, fair, and impartial tone.
> 4.  invite sharing experiences over opinions.
> 5.  insist that opinion be backed up with facts and references.
> 6.  are more than just mindless social fun.

So, if a subjective question is best answered with experience, with
explanation of why and how that experience was superior, and with facts
and references backing up its backs up its claif superiority, then, yes,
"If you've had success with this, how did you do it?" and related
guiding questions can be a useful part of a good, constructive,
subjective question.

On the other hand, it's a bad, non-constructive, subjective question if
the question does not ask for a how or a why or facts or references or
just lack the right tone or it fits these other points from Real
Questions Have Answers:

> To prevent your question from being flagged and possibly removed,
> avoid asking subjective questions where …
>
> -   every answer is equally valid: “What’s your favorite **\_\_**?”
> -   your answer is provided along with the question, and you expect
>     more answers: “I use **\_** for **\_**, what do you use?”

I fully agree with you that there is a category of non-constructive poll
questions that need to be reformed or closed/deleted. However, I
wouldn't be too hasty here, not just because nions that use "you" or
"your" are going to be such questions but because we're dealing with a
discipline that has some highly subjective areas in it and "How we done
it good" is actually considered a perfectly valid type of formal article
because **there is no other way of answering some questions in this
discipline.** If SE wants to be a collection of expert answers to
canonical questions, well, this is what those things look like
sometimes.

### Comments ###
* Joe: I think you're \*way\* off with \#2 -- I can think of plenty of bad
questions that the only way to answer completely is to give a very long
answer, much longer than would be considered good form on these sorts of
sites. (you know, when [it's gotten bad enough to require a
flowchart](http://vso1.nascom.nasa.gov/sdo/sdo\_flowchart.pdf)).I also
don't agree that \#5 is part of a 'good question'. References make for a
good answer, yes; good site policy, yes ... but when you call it out in
the question it looks like you're trying to get us to do the research
for your homework)

Answer by AaronC
----------------
Hmmm. Well, I pretty much signed up to SE to figure out how other
librarians are dealing with similar issues that I am facing--through a
question and answer format.

Given that the [highest viewed question on the
site](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/386/what-are-some-alternatives-to-fines-that-have-been-successfully-implemented)
is definitely one of these types of questions under scrutiny, I would
suggest that the problem isn't these "types" of questions, but the types
of answers they attract. I asked it because I was simply curious, and a
lot of people gave a lot of great answers. However, each answer was
specific to an organization and ignored the other responses or even a
general approach that could be taken. I noticed this and commented on it
a while back, but have avoided giving the thread a "best answer" because
those who answered were only able to share THEIR solution. I think
someone could go onto that thread right now, summarize the responses,
(e.g. "Well some people have done this, and some people have done
this... and here is a note to consider...") then I would likely find
that to be a "best answer" because that is the type of answer I was
expecting when I asked the question.

### Comments ###
* jonsca: It's a tough line to draw sometimes. We do want people's expert opinion,
but, you're right, in that having an exhaustive list of suggestions
isn't what we really want. We'll be finding a balance over the next few
months that isn't always going to please absolutely everyone, but it
will give the site greater power and longevity as a resource for
librarians and information specialists to consult.
* Jakob: If a question turns out to attract a list of personal reports as
answers, we should think about modifying the title of the question to
something like "What ... do you use".
* Deborah Mould: I agree @Jakob. Sometimes those close to an issue have a problem in
finding the 'right' words for SE. I've tried to ask some questions, but
my wording was wrong and the moderators commented on this. Despite this,
quite a view people viewed the question - so there are others with
similiar interests. I'd prefer that edits were done on the question to
make it fit more into the SE type of query. I notice that M. Alan Thomas
II asked for a similiar thing on the original question post too.
* Ashley Nunn: @DeborahMould we try our best to make every question fit, but sometimes
there is no way to edit a question in such a way that it fits the SE
model. It's unfortunate when it happens, but it does happen.

