---
title : Are "Name That Book" questions on-topic?
---
Are "Name That Book" questions on-topic?
=====================
These are questions seeking authoritative identifying information (title
& author) for a specific item for which the questioner can only provide
a description of some sort. They:

1.  Have one and only one correct answer and can be closed if they do
    not produce sufficient information to determine it.
2.  Are real questions with actual answers that librarians face on a
    daily basis.
3.  Usually require a large body of experts to answer.
4.  Will match book titles and authors to reasonable descriptions of
    them for future reference (e.g., when drawing people looking for the
    same book off Google).
5.  Were very popular on Unshelved Answers and may serve as the "head"
    necessary to draw in an audience to a "long tail" site such as this
    one.

I should note that on Unshelved Answers, it was virtually always the
case that the questioner had been searching for the answer for years,
the community only once failed to find the correct answer within a week,
and other users frequently commented that they had harbored the same
question or otherwise found the Q&A useful.

A question of this sort received the requisite 5 up-votes during the
definition phase of this site
(http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/12432/libraries-information-science/13474\#13474)
and another only 4
(http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/12432/libraries-information-science/13321\#13321),
but both received comments noting how interested the users would be in
seeing such questions here.

I think that this is a perfectly factual, non-list, popular question
type with a non-zero future reference potential that would serve both
the "head" and the "long tail" of a long-tail model site such as this
one.

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###


Answer by Joe
----------------
I'm torn on this for two reasons ...

1.  If we're catering to the 'I've been looking for this book for years'
    type situation, I think it's a very valuable service for this
    community.

2.  I have a feeling that we're going to end up being the reference desk
    for lazy people who don't know how to do research.

So, I'd propose that if it were acceptable, that there be some sort of
bar that's set ... maybe some template to fill out w/ what they know of
the book (with the hope that as they're filling it out, it'd give them
sufficient clues to find it on their own, leaving only the truly
chalenging ones ... and help to weed out the people who are not only
lazing in searching themselves, but also in filling out some form or
whatever barrier to ask the question is set)

Perhaps first we need to make an FAQ-type page, going over basic search
strategies & tricks for locate books (like using google image search to
[find books by
color](http://searchresearch1.blogspot.com/2011/05/answer-how-can-you-find-book-by-its.html))
If we're going to have to do a reference interview for each one of
these, it's going to get very tiring, very quickly.

### Comments ###

Answer by KatieR
----------------
This Stack Exchange is for professionals to ask questions about the
profession, not a reference desk. We even start allowing any kind of
"Name That Book" question and it'll snowball. I say we stop it before it
begins and not allow it at all.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Can you give a reason as to /why/ that will be so? I'm not unwilling to
believe you, I'd just like to see something more than a bald assertion
that X is evil.
* Ashley Nunn: @M.AlanThomasII Regardless of whether or not they will take over the
site, I fail to see what purpose or room they have on a site for library
professionals asking about the library and information science
profession. This doesn't exactly belong in any way, shape, or form.

Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
There are various places on the internet where they specifically do ONLY
things like this - The "What Was That Book" community on Livejournal,
Whatisthatbook.com, etc.

I don't think that they are a good fit for Libraries Stack Exchange,
because a) the OP is the only person who knows if the answer is right,
so upvoting and downvoting isn't useful whatsoever, b) It is relatively
unlikely that someone else is going to be looking for the same book
based on the same bits of it that they remember, and c) it is not really
anything based on the profession - these are questions that anyone has,
and other than the fact that they are about books, they aren't really
useful.

One of the many reasons that Literature Stack Exchange failed was that a
lot of its questions were just "What was that book" sorts of questions,
which made for a very poor site. Also, Gaming recently finished deciding
that "Identify this Game" questions also did not bring much in terms of
long-term benefit to the site.

I really don't want to see Libraries go the way of Literature. I want
this site to grow and blossom and be ten kinds of awesome, and if we get
stuck on questions like "What was that book", I suspect we will drown in
them before we get our feet underneath us.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: On the other hand, RPGs decided that recommendations were just fine for
them and it hasn't hurt them any despite being potentially disastrous
elsewhere, and Programmers was explicitly set up to do things that would
ruin the main community, so I'm not sure that all decisions and
experiences on one part of SE generalize to the rest of it without
exception.
* Anna Lear: @M.AlanThomasII What do you mean by "Programmers was explicitly set up
to do things that would ruin the main community"?
* Ashley Nunn: @M.AlanThomasII You might find [this blog
post](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2012/02/lets-play-the-guessing-game/)
an interesting read. Especially this: "After a year I am convinced that
guessing game questions do not meet our goal of making the Internet
better. Quite the opposite, in fact...and when your site’s most popular
tag is “book-recommendation”, there are perhaps deeper problems to
contend with."
* M. Alan Thomas II: @AnnaLear: The story I keep hearing about how it's an offshoot of Stack
Overflow designed to do things that the main site didn't want despite
having the same target community. The same way I keep hearing that other
SE sites (i.e., us) can't do X or Y because that's not how the Big Three
do it. I have read through the longer blog post about the difference,
but the shorthand that always gets used where I've seen it is
"Programmers.SE was designed for questions so subjective that they
violated the existing norms and are banned on SO (which we're all
supposed to be clones of)."
* Anna Lear: @M.AlanThomasII There isn't enough room to go into great detail here
(nor is it the right place), but your understanding of Programmers is
outdated. :) The premise that spawned it turned out to be unworkable and
the site shifted focus to real software development questions instead of
accepting all the dregs of SO. I don't think its history particularly
applies to the discussion here.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Okay. I feel much better now that someone's explained that. I'm quite
happy to accept answers that explain things and point to network-wide
guidelines (like the blog posts), but I'm getting a little frustrated at
the community of users here whose interactions seem to consist mostly of
"You're doing it wrong, because ." Or "I know nothing about your
profession, but X your profession."

