---
title: "Should we have a policy on 'meta-tags' on Meta?"
layout: default
---
Should we have a policy on 'meta-tags' on Meta?
=====================
A long time ago, there was a discussion on Cooking.SE about what were
called
'[meta-tags](http://meta.cooking.stackexchange.com/questions/434/please-zap-the-meta-tags-and-dependent-tags)'.
Basically, those tags which mean absolutely *nothing* on their own.

The one I've noticed is actually on meta, not the main site:

-   [constructive](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/constructive)

This one's especially egregious as if people think (especially in meta),
that a question is constructive -- up vote it. If you think it's not,
down vote it.

So, should we have a policy against 'meta-tags' in general, or just the
subjective ones?

Joe

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">tags</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Deborah Mould
----------------
Hopefully everything that is discussed in Meta is constructive, so I
don't think we need this tag at all.

### Comments ###

Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
From what I can see, it looks like the tag is being used to talk about
what is constructive/acceptable on the site and what isn't. This strikes
me as somewhat useless, as the whole point of Meta is for issues like
that. I say we just edit the questions to remove the tags, and just let
the tag die on its own.

### Comments ###

Answer by Shog9
----------------
As Ashley notes, the tag was apparently used to discuss types of
questions that might be seen as inappropriate (not constructive).

I've replaced it with
[scope](/questions/tagged/scope "show questions tagged 'scope'") on the
questions where it appeared, as this term is better able to encompass
the topics of discussion (which may decide certain questions are
appropriate / inappropriate for reasons beyond simply
constructive/not-constructive). I've also merged (and synonymized)
[on-topic](/questions/tagged/on-topic "show questions tagged 'on-topic'")
with [scope](/questions/tagged/scope "show questions tagged 'scope'"),
for the same reason.

### Comments ###

