---
title: "Is information science as a domain ontopic?"
layout: default
---
Is information science as a domain ontopic?
=====================
I was lead to believe that [information
science](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science) was ontopic,
but it appears that most of the questions have to do with libraries. For
example, would topics related to eDiscovery be offtopic even though they
fall within the domain of information science? If so, what sub-domains
of information science are ontopic, and how does one test to confirm the
topics presented fit within those terms?

blunders

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">scope</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Verbeia
----------------
It's up to the community that forms. Certainly there was [discussion
during the proposal phase that suggested that it was
on-topic](http://discuss.area51.stackexchange.com/q/4109/41190).

I would suggest that it should be on-topic. That said, since there are
more librarians in the world than there are information science
academics, I suspect that library-oriented content will dominate.

### Comments ###
* Verbeia: Upvoting this answer can be used as a sign that the community agrees
that information science should be on-topic. Someone else may want to
post an answer arguing the opposite, so that users can decide. This is
what the private beta phase is for. (I should mention that I would be
quite interested in the information science/management side of things
but have no expertise in libraries except as a user!)

Answer by Jeanne Boyarsky
----------------
> Someone else may want to post an answer arguing the opposite, so that
> users can decide.

Sure why not.

I originally thought of information science as data classification which
seems related to libraries. I then looked on wikipedia (librarians
please don't cringe) and found "However, it is actually a broad,
interdisciplinary field, incorporating not only aspects of computer
science, but often diverse fields such as archival science, cognitive
science, commerce, communications, law, library science, museology,
management, mathematics, philosophy, public policy, and the social
sciences."

Boy, that's broad. So most of the content here is about libraries, some
is about information science related to libraries. And some is about
academic information science as not related to libraries? That feels
weird.

As I write the counter opinion, I can't really argue this. As the site
grows people will follow the relevant tags and I don't imagine the info
science will overshadow the library "core."

Note: I'm not a librarian and not planning to stay with the site in the
long run so nothing vested in the outcome either way (I'm a computer
programmer but I'd like to see this community succeed. Turns out
librarians know more about the stack exchange way than many techies do!)

### Comments ###
* Gene Golovchinsky: There seems to be a significant overlap between libraries and
information science, even if there are also significant areas of
non-overlap. As libraries invest more resources in digital collections
or digital finding aids, the intersection will grow.
* Verbeia: Thanks Jeanne. Funny that we are both non-librarians that wanted to help
the site succeed.

Answer by trevormunoz
----------------
I would agree that information science should be considered on topic for
many of the reasons that participants in this thread [Are questions
about archives on topic, and should they be solicited
somehow?](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/q/14/360) were arguing
that questions about archives should be considered on topic.

As libraries increasingly engage in building digital collections and in
new services related to data curation and digital humanities, the
concerns and perspectives of information science will be important and
relevant.

Data representation, knowledge organization, user communities,
information behavior, systems analysis ... all these are important
information science topics that I would hope an LIS Stack Exchange would
engage with.

### Comments ###

