---
title: "Should the tag [libraries] be allowed?"
layout: default
---
Should the tag [libraries] be allowed?
=====================
I just found out that the tag
[libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/libraries "show questions tagged 'libraries'")
is blacklisted; I suppose it's because this is the name of the site and
*all* questions seem to be relevant to libraries. However, this is not
true: the site is about library and information science, which includes
questions about archives and museums among other topics not related to
libraries. For this reason I'd like to allow
[libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/libraries "show questions tagged 'libraries'")
next to
[museums](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/museums "show questions tagged 'museums'")
and
[archives](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/archives "show questions tagged 'archives'")
for questions about libraries as general institutions.

Jakob

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">tag-blacklist-request</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by jonsca
----------------
Why not just use
[museums](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/museums "show questions tagged 'museums'")
and
[archives](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/archives "show questions tagged 'archives'")
as necessary, since those are probably going to be the exception not the
rule? If say, less than 5% of our questions are for other institutions,
then retagging the other 95% as
[libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/libraries "show questions tagged 'libraries'")
sounds like it would be counterproductive.

As a whole, SE would like to avoid the so-called "meta" tags (in the
sense of all encompassing, not in the sense of "Meta.Libraries", e.g.,
something like `programming` or `computing` on SO, etc.), as they are
largely implied by the sites that house them.

### Comments ###
* Jakob: Ok, thanks for the response. However, I'd favour not voting my question
down, but this response up unless someone considers my question as not
constructive.
* jonsca: @Jakob Voting works a little bit differently on the meta sites. Since no
reputation is at stake, people take it as a means of expressing
agreement or disagreement on a proposition. It's definitely not a
critique on your question or you, just the subject matter. I personally
did not downvote you.
* Jakob: Ok. By the way I thought about the [tag:libraries] tag because [this
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/911/credit-debit-card-machines-in-libraries)
was tagged [tag:public-libraries] while it applies to any library types.
I just retagged it.
* jonsca: @Jakob That's fine. It wasn't appropriate there, but make sure that the
question isn't particular to public libraries (e.g., a question about a
public library board made up of citizens or something).
* M. Alan Thomas II: Yes, I think that the type-specific tags should be used when something's
specific to a specific type of library or museums or archives or
what-have-you and not when the question isn't really; "libraries" is
just too general to result in anything other than metadata clutter.
(Who's going to browse or follow the general "libraries" tag,
realistically speaking?)

