---
title: "Creating a digital-preservation tag and adding it back to all the digital preservation questions"
layout: default
---
Creating a digital-preservation tag and adding it back to all the digital preservation questions
=====================
Would folks be OK with me making a "digital-preservation" tag and
appending it to all of the questions related to the subject? With that I
might try to do more outreach to get digital preservation folks to
follow/participate in those discussions. As [there seems to be
consensus](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/50/where-is-the-line-between-the-digital-preservation-and-libraries-stack-exchange)
that digital preservation questions are a good fit here.

Trevor Owens

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">tags</li><li class="tag">retagging</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* jonsca: If it fits on a particular question, certainly! Use your best judgement.
* Jakob: [tag:digital-preservation] is fine, but please create a tag excerpt.
[tag:perservation] should be used for general and analog preservation
issues, right?
* Jakob: of course I meant [tag:preservation] (typo)


Answer by AaronC
----------------
Do it.

I think the best outreach, however, is to ask more digital preservation
questions (myself included).

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: Thanks! In general, is it better to create compound tags for things like
digital-preservation-outreach or to have things get two tags like
digital-preservation and then outreach as a separate tag?
* AaronC: @TrevorOwens I would do separate tags, but I'm not a SE expert.
* jonsca: @TrevorOwens I would say do them separately for now, unless you
anticipate a ton of questions with \`digital-preservation-outreach\`
right away. Otherwise, tagging and reorganizing can happen later. Thanks
to both of your for your efforts!!

