---
title : Are questions about archives on topic, and should they be solicited somehow?
---
Are questions about archives on topic, and should they be solicited somehow?
=====================
I went through library school without a strong exposure to the archival
profession and its rich history and scholarship. I'm trying to make up
for lost time now, but am wondering if questions involving archives are
welcome here.

Because of the increasing relevance of archival theory/practice to the
preservation of born digital materials I would like to see archives
included. But I was wondering what other people think?

...and then there are museums :-D

Ed Summers

### Comments ###
* Trevor Owens: it's an interesting question, I would also add that if archives are fair
game are museums and galleries in too. All of them play related but
distinct roles.


Answer by KatieR
----------------
I do think archives should be included because archivists go through a
Library & Information Science degree program. I would say no to museums
and galleries because they are a different degree program, so the
education and philosophies might be different. Archivists fall under the
umbrella term of the "librarian" profession due to the similar education
while museum and galleries are a separate profession, in my opinion.

### Comments ###

Answer by Harrison W. Inefuku
----------------
I would say that questions on archives should not be considered on
topic. Archives is a separate profession from librarianship (evidenced
by the existence of separate professional organizations, for example)
that, while related to librarianship (and museum studies, as another
information setting), also has ties to history and is more closely
aligned to records management. Archives and libraries have different
theoretical frameworks that underlie the organization and description of
materials (archival arrangement and description vs. cataloging, for
example). Although some archival programs are part of library degree
programs, this is far from universal, as many schools offer archival
studies through their history department and, within North America, the
University of British Columbia, Georgia State and San Jose State offer a
Master of Archival Studies or Master of Archives and Records
Administration degree.

Questions regarding the preservation of born-digital materials that are
not specific to a particular information environment might be better
suited to the proposed Digital Preservation stack.

### Comments ###
* Gene Golovchinsky: The real world is really good at blending and confusing artificial
boundaries created for the benefit of a university's administration. In
practice, it seems that there is a significant and growing overlap
between the knowledge required to be an effective librarian and the
knowledge related to archives. As the number and breadth of digital
collections increases, these distinctions will become progressively less
important. We should keep the future (as well as the present) in mind
when considering the scope of this group and of the communities of
practice that it represents.

Answer by amedinasmith
----------------
As an archivist who's title is librarian (that is I do both archival and
library work) I think that the archival questions are certainly on
topic. While the work *can* be very separate from library work, in my
day to day job it is one in the same.

For example, my work envolves cataloging and metadata tasks for both
archival materials and electronic journal articles and I need to worry
about digital and physical preservation of our collections (and yes, I
am waiting w/ bated breath for the Digital Preservation stack to get
into beta).

Often the questions faced by archivists are faced by librarians as well:
how to create a collection development plan or how to catalog a type of
material. Yes, they are answered using different sets of background
knowledge, but they all stem from the same premise of caring for and
providing access to information no matter its form.

### Comments ###

