---
title : What are your "wishes" for the site?
---
What are your "wishes" for the site?
=====================
I'd like to take a moment and reach out to our userbase and find out if
there is anything that you think is missing from the site.

As to not bias any responses, I want to leave this open-ended, and
encourage you to answer this question with any **constructive** (please)
and preferably concrete wishes or suggestions as to how we can spur
activity on the site.

One suggestion/wish per answer, please.

jonsca

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: My bias towards allowing a wider variety of question because we're in a
discipline that depends more on case studies and subjectivity than
authority and demonstrable fact is no secret. Virtually no questions
that I actually have can be asked here and no questions that are asked
here are useful or interesting to me; that's why I stopped contributing
to our 0.8 questions per day &c. Thus, my wish is that we find some
categories or styles of question that people actually want to ask and
let them ask them. (Not a concrete suggestion; that's why it's a
comment.)
* jonsca: @M.AlanThomasII I appreciate your opinion, and I \*would\* like to see
you active on the site again. It's tricky to write questions that fit
the framework, but once you do, the answers are more useful to both you
and future users. I will bear your observations in mind for the future
of the site and see if we can work with them, but in the meantime, if
you have questions, ask them!
* M. Alan Thomas II: I'm sorry, but your second sentence seems to imply that I just need to
practice more or work harder or something and then I'll get the hang of
it. I have to say, that feels just a little insulting and possibly
condescending ("There there, I know it's tricky, but you have to try.")
You also state that it's for my own good, which feels paternalistic. I
have to disagree that re-writing my questions in terms that don't
reflect my needs will always help me. Indeed, many questions cannot
possibly be re-worded to meet the standards, but I am not better off for
not knowing the answers.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I asked my question. It got immediately closed. Not revised, closed.
This is not a matter of effort, and it does not help me or anyone else.
Indeed, it was closed under a standard by which I'm fairly sure the most
popular question I've written here, which is in the site's top 10
questions, should also be closed. That will make 20% of our top-10 list
closed, which strikes me as possibly being indicative of a problem.
* jonsca: @M.AlanThomasII Actually, I had written the comment \*before\* I had
seen your question closed on the main site, so I do apologize for
speaking in the abstract when there was a situation going on. I
certainly didn't mean for anything to be condescending. My purpose for
initiating this discussion on Meta was to see if there was a way for all
of us to meet in the middle somewhere.
* jonsca: The thing about closed questions is, they can and should be revised.
Closing is not the end of the line for a question. I would encourage you
to rework it a bit into more general characteristics for selecting a
piece of software instead of asking for a recommendation. In light of
this and other similar situations, Ashley is going to write a Meta post
about these recommendation questions and how they can be rewritten.
We're not setting out to trash your ideas or your question, and I think
we want to try to find ways to make the ideas and the questions blend
together smoothly.
* jonsca: It's for that reason that I started this question, not to pick a fight
or to call anyone out on anything. Again, if you felt that way, I
apologize.
* M. Alan Thomas II: No, no, you started the question before I asked mine in Main, and the
fact that the issue I then brought up here was later reinforced by an
example on Main is an (un)happy coincidence. That's all it is; an
example. This isn't supposed to be a back-channel attack on a decision
by a moderator I greatly respect, and I didn't think that you were
trying to do anything of the sort in the opposite direction.
* Jeni: Has Ashley written that Meta post yet about how to revise and get
reopened a closed question?
* jonsca: @Jeni [This](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/166/127) is the
one to which I was referring. It's more directed at questions that have
been closed as "shopping recommendations", though. To nominate a
question to be reopened, simply flag it after it has been edited and one
of us can take a look at it. Was there a specific post you were looking
at?


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
The question asks for input in spurring activity here. I am beginning to
agree with @M. Alan Thomas II that this site is just not a good fit for
librarians.

Librarians are unlike any other group on StackExchange. First, we don't
need canonical answers because we can find those on our own. Second, we
appreciate that a good library is full of information, sometimes
contradictory, and as librarians we would rather see an assortment of
answers and choose the best for ourselves than see a bunch of questions
for which some other person identified what is the true and accepted
answer.

Third, and perhaps most significant, we have all been educated at the
feet of Ranganathan - every book its user, every user his book.
Librarians don't care that the answer to a question is only useful to a
few people, or even one person. That person has an information need; we
try to meet it. If we have room for it in our collection (and web-space
is pretty limitless), we should make it available. As it stands, we have
a paltry 276 questions here - room is clearly not an issue. If we open
up the site to a wider variety of question types, we might have a site
that is useful to librarians. What if it blossomed and we had thousands
of questions to sort through - how would people find the information
that is helpful? We are librarians - we might have to develop a better
system of tags.

And fourth, a related point, the process of closing questions and asking
people to make the questions better before they are worthy of answering
is insulting, and it drives people away. As librarians, we should
instead be asking the questioner clarifying questions to improve the
question if the question is not clear. If it is clear but perhaps not
within preset guidelines, consider just letting it stand to see whether
it gets answers that might be helpful to someone. Over time, the
"library" can be weeded of questions that never got upticked answers.

So those are my suggestions.

### Comments ###
* Jeni: I agree with your first three paragraphs. However as someone who has had
questions closed I just think the information about how to edit and then
flag it needs to be better understood.
* Mary Jo Finch: Couldn't we help people edit without closing their questions first? When
a question is closed, no one can answer it until the user asks it
better. It feels punitive. I understand the desire to have "smart"
questions in a Q&A database, but when you have to train people before
they can use your site, that user experience will not engender as many
return visits as a more open policy. We are creating a library here that
is very small and getting very little use. Current library management
literature would suggest our policies need revision.
* jonsca: @MaryJoFinch I'm not ignoring your comments. I have been busy this week.
I am glad you are expressing what you think needs to be changed. We will
try to process everything so we can discuss it at a later date.
* Melissa: I agree that the majority of our questions are not the one-answer kind.
The questions on the board are for the most part extremely technical and
not applicable in the least to my job as Public Services Librarian.
Honest? I find them boring and have basically stopped visiting the site
regularly.
* jonsca: @Melissa Well, not everyone will find every question to be useful or
interesting, but that's part of the reason why there are previews of the
title and beginning of every question. You can also add any tags to the
favorite and ignore boxes on the front page. Also, if the questions
aren't applicable to you, ask some that are! :)
* jonsca: @MaryJoFinch In response to your fourth point, I'm not sure why this is
insulting. It may be startling at first, but is definitely covered in
the FAQ, which everyone should read before using the site anyway,
honestly. I grant you, as a practice it takes some getting used to, but
having an optimal, specific, well-structured question benefits everyone.
The asker, those who are answering, and those who will appreciate the
completeness of the answer in the future. You're right, we should be
asking the questioner to clairfy, and we do. And we can after the
question is closed.
* jonsca: I think people misunderstand the reason for closing a question. It's not
punishment (unless the question is in flagrant violation of tact or
spam), it's meant to stave off people answering a bad question before it
can be improved. Closing is not the end of the line for a question at
all.
* jonsca: Yes, it is technically a step towards deletion, but a highly reversible
one. \`consider just letting it stand to see whether it gets answers
that might be helpful to someone\` - well, I understand where you are
coming from, but why not let it be gently corrected and get answers that
might be helpful to a lot of someones? That being said, is there a
middle ground here somewhere? I think so, but I'm not sure exactly where
it is.
* jonsca: I don't think that any viable question has been deleted thusfar, so if
you see a closed question that needs improvement, give it an edit and
flag it to be reopened, or I would even invite you to flag it with a
custom reason and tell us why it should be reopened as is. Even better
would be to start a Meta post on that particular question and outline
your reasons there. We will certainly take anyone's input into
consideration.

