---
title: "Is it ethical to ask a question from an Area51 site here?"
layout: default
---
Is it ethical to ask a question from an Area51 site here?
=====================
If there is a question from an Area51 site that is appropriate also for
here is it ethical to ask it? (it is, of course, unanswered because it
is in Area51)

If it is ethical, should I refer back to the original question (example:
In genealogical research, what is the difference between "primary
information" and "secondary information?" first asked by Gene J. in Area
51 Genealogy & Family
Historyhttp://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/43502/genealogy-family-history?phase=definition&tab=votes\#tab-top
- or would that be considered promoting/advertising?

Jeni

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
You can ask it here - in fact, I am pretty sure some of the top voted
A51 questions from the proposal for the site got asked here.

The usual rules apply - it still needs to be a good fit for the site (on
topic, constructive, etc). We don't want questions pulled from A51 just
for the sake of having questions.

That said, if you find something you think would fit here, and it hasn't
been asked/answered somewhere else, and it would fit best here (and not
some other site, even one not yet in beta), go for it! Ask away! If
someone here can answer, awesome!

As for linking back - I don't think it is necessary to do so - if the
site you are pulling from reaches beta, and someone decides to ask that
same question there, that is a perfectly okay thing to have happen. Some
sites have a weird overlap, and there are ways to move things around if
ultimately the question belongs more over there than it would here (such
as it being completely off topic here).

### Comments ###
* Aarthi: Well-said, Ash! :)
* M. Alan Thomas II: I was the one who embarked on the project of asking a bunch of the
top-voted questions. Half I didn't ask because they would have been
closed and half I did ask got closed, too. It was explicitly claimed at
one point (I think by Robert Cartaino) that good/high-voted
scope-defining proposal questions were unlikely to be good actual site
questions. That being said, I fully endorse asking any on-topic,
constructive questions from betas. I usually included the link as a
comment to avoid plagiarism/reputation-stealing concerns.

