---
title : Comments could be answers & accepting answers
---
Comments could be answers & accepting answers
=====================
When I look through the "Unanswered" questions on the main Libraries
site, I see many comments that are actually answers. I think that to
follow the format of the Stack Exchange these should be turned into
answers by the person/people who made the comment.

Also, on the Stack Exchange meta there was a discussion of people not
accepting answers. I hadn't really realized this was important in the
Stack Exchange process. Librarians are always open to more answers, but
for this site to be successful and get out of Beta, I think we need more
answers and more acceptance of good answers.

Jeni

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Jeni, I agree, but we can't force anyone to post an answer. If you
really feel strongly about it, you can post them as an answer (and
designate them Community Wiki if you don't feel like you should have the
rep the person would have received). I don't think there's anything more
we can do. There are many other discussions on MSO about it.
* Aarthi: @jonsca That's an answer, not a comment :P
* jonsca: Jeni, you may have seen it already, but also see [this
answer](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/a/149702/159165) by Yannis on MSO,
as it expands on what Ashley and I have said a bit.


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
As Jonsca pointed out, we can't force people to post answers instead of
comments, nor can we force people to accept answers. This is something
that has been brought up on Meta.StackOverflow numerous times, and the
general consensus is that it does get somewhat disheartening sometimes
when people don't accept answers and the like, but there is not much
that can be done.

If there are comments you feel very strongly about in terms of them
being better as an answer, feel free to post them as Community Wiki
answers.

Other than that, there isn't really anything we can do.

### Comments ###

