---
title: "Are we just too good at research?"
layout: default
---
Are we just too good at research?
=====================
In talking to [another user on
here](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/users/470/cpikas) at the
ASIS&T annual meeting this week ... we lamented that when there were
really good questions on here, they tended to be really difficult to
answer.

So, my theory is that as we're members of a field that includes tasks
such as searching for information, we're not going to ask the questions
that are easliy answerable. Asking for possible sources to find an
answer to a objective question would be better than asking the question
directly ... as at least then we won't have to ask again the next time a
similar question came up.

Am I wrong? Or are there other issues that we need to consider about
this community as a whole that might make using the same limitations on
questions as other stack exchange sites problematic?

Joe

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Thanks for expressing your opinion on this. For further discussion see
[this Meta
post](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/162/what-are-your-wishes-for-the-site).
I want everyone to keep tossing around ideas about this so that we
\*can\* find some sort of happy medium. Programmers.SE has gone through
a lot of growth in trying to incorporate quality subjective evidence
into answers to practical problems and maintain constructive questions,
and I think that we can learn a lot from them in the long term. I don't
think a detour completely away from the SE
* jonsca: philosophy is prudent (as it has borne fruit for a diverse group of
sites), but I think that we can learn to work within it and provide a
viable source for people to exchange their ideas (albeit in a question
and answer format). Anyway, I won't weigh in any further on this yet, I
want to hear from as many users as possible (and constructive dissenting
opinions are welcome). We've had some passionate responses to the other
Meta questions, and we are listening.


Answer by Jakob
----------------
Good point: to some degree libraries.SE is too academic. Yes it's called
"Libraries and Information *Science*" but this should not mean to limit
on scientific questions. I'd like to see more how-to-questions,
beginning with fundamentals such as *"Where do I find a particular
book?"*. Members of this community should know the basics, but can we
explain to other people?

### Comments ###
* jonsca: Asking about suppliers and such would be fine, if that's what you are
getting at, as long as there is some criteria upon which the answers can
be judged. I think what we're most concerned about right now is
questions that start out "how does your library do..." which regrettably
just degrade into discussions. A wide variety of topics have found a
home here on SE, and I don't think libraries will be the exception to
that, but the key is to put some questions out there and see how they
fare.
* Mary Jo Finch: I am admittedly a renegade on this subject, but I think "how does your
library do" questions, while they may not generate a definitive answer,
are extremely useful for the librarians who frequent this site. If there
is a definitive answer, most librarians can find it on their own. What
is wrong with a question that has more than one good answer? Why should
we limit our universe to questions that have one best answer?
* M. Alan Thomas II: I will reiterate my position on this: A pure "How does your library do .
. ." question is useless, but an attempt to discover undiscovered public
knowledge in the form of asking for and voting on best practices with a
definite and clearly stated objective to be achieved by said practices
is entirely constructive even if we have to talk about it some to figure
it out. (C.f. the last section of
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/165/345 for my original
answer.)

Answer by Canadian Girl Scout
----------------
Currently this site has a nice bundle of users (nearly 800), but the
fact that it is **only generating 0.5 questions per day** will not keep
these users interested or engaged enough to check back in often. On the
genealogy beta site, there has been similar discussion on [whether or
not to include
how-to-questions](http://meta.genealogy.stackexchange.com/questions/3/should-we-be-asking-specific-questions-about-helps-with-specific-ancestors-on-th/15#15)
as @Jakob suggested. The quote I particularly like is, *"If we don't
address those types of questions in some form then we have no chance of
maintaining a viable community. You can only ask so many questions about
research methods."*

I've just posed a how-to type question:

> [How to build a Dewey number for a Hanukkah/Christmas interfaith
> item?](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/1266/how-to-build-a-dewey-number-for-a-hanukkah-christmas-interfaith-item)

This describes a very practical problem that I have been pondering and
trying to solve for a few days. Hoping that the community here sees the
value in drawing in these types of information seekers and does not
close the question.

### Comments ###

