---
title: "The FAQ doesn't seem to capture the moderators sense of what is in scope and what isn't"
layout: default
---
The FAQ doesn't seem to capture the moderators sense of what is in scope and what isn't
=====================
I've recently seen two questions that on LIS Stack that moderators felt
were not in scope, but the "rules" behind these decisions are not
captured anywhere in the FAQ (eg. the position on "shopping questions"
and the position on "list questions"). This makes it difficult
(particularly for new users) to understand the scope for this site, and
work within it's rules. Having a question closed due to scoping issues
that are not described anywhere can be somewhat discouraging for new
users. This is not good for a site in beta, which is looking to build
it's user base.

The current situation is leading to confusion and inconsistency. So for
example, [this
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/1392/what-skill-sets-should-students-interested-in-digtial-preservation-careers-focus)
is a "list question" according to Jonsca, and was turned into a
"community wiki". But [this
question](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/964/what-preservation-risks-are-associated-with-the-pdf-file-format)
received no such treatment, but as far as I can see, is no different in
requiring some degree of list in its answers.

Is it possible for the moderators to specify exactly what the scope and
rules are in the FAQ? At the moment the only real detail reads as
follows...

> You should only ask practical, answerable questions based on actual
> problems that you face. Chatty, open-ended questions diminish the
> usefulness of our site and push other questions off the front page.

...which doesn't really give a lot of guidance.

Paul Wheatley

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">support</li><li class="tag">moderation</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: We are planning to revamp the parts of the FAQ that we as moderators can
edit in the near future, which will help make these sorts of things
clearer.
* Paul Wheatley: Thanks Ashley, that would be really useful
* jonsca: I turned that into a Community Wiki because it had some decent content
in the answer, but really wasn't a good question, for the "list" reason
that you describe. Ideally it would have been closed, but I wanted to
see if we could keep it. As Ashley has said, we're actively grinding
away at all of these issues and will attempt to come to some resolution
about them very soon. So, we both sincerely appreciate that you started
this post, as I think there is a lot to talk about surrounding the
topics/appropriate questions and any overarching philosophies.
* Paul Wheatley: Hi Jonsca, I think you missed the point I was making. I referenced two
questions that seem to have met with different fates, but I don't really
know as I have no idea what the rules are that you are implementing.
Until you and Ashley write down what those rules are, its very difficult
for anyone else to understand them or to have a discussion about them.
* jonsca: I get your point. I see those as being two very different questions.
Someone who is a preservation expert can answer about the risks of the
PDF in a succinct manner, and it may be a "list", but not in the sense
of "What could I eat for breakfast?" The downfall of the second question
is in the \`Anyone want to share the skill sets that you think they
should have?\` which I could answer with "keyboarding, tenacity, the
ability to digest coffee, and comfortable shoes". In other words, based
on the parameters of the question, \*anything goes\*.
* jonsca: So, thereby someone on google in 2014 might do a search on "risks of
using PDF in digital preservation" and pop up your question, and go
"ah-hah!", whereas someone might be searching for information on skill
sets for preservationists, see my answer about shoes (which is valid,
right? because that's what I think someone should have) and split to
another site.
* jonsca: Again, the Community Wiki aspect is a bit murky, as most sites have
dumped it, and I personally can't stand it, but rather than torching the
potentially useful info that was there, I elected to preserve it. We're
in a bit of a pinch, as we don't want to close every question, but
there's no way that anyone is going to meet us halfway if we don't start
somewhere.
* jonsca: (but all in all, yes, we need to have a concrete FAQ. Some aspects of
standards of the site are derived from it being a member of SE, and the
hope with the commitment phase of the proposal was to get and retain
some active members from other sites to be able to hit the ground
running with good, quality questions. Many of us cut our teeth on Stack
Overflow where most of these principles are second nature, and
@AshleyNunn and I have been trying to lead more by example than jam
rules into people, but I suppose it's going to have to come down to some
concrete rules at some point)


