---
title: "Libraries & Information Science will be closing on June 7, 2013"
layout: default
---
Libraries & Information Science will be closing on June 7, 2013
=====================
After over a year in beta, it has become evident that Libraries SE
simply can not sustain itself. We'll be closing the site in ten days, at
which point a dump of the content will be available on the [site's Area
51
page](http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/12432/libraries-information-science).
Please take this time to take stock of your content and flag any great
questions that might have a suitable home on another site for moderator
attention to be migrated. I'll go into some detail of what went, or is
going wrong and then close with some advice on what another generation
could do differently for this topic to work.

Think of this as an opportunity for analysis and a more focused try in
the future. This was a hard topic to hit in Q&A format, and those that
participated gave it a good try.

### What went wrong?

In short, those that actively participated in building Libraries SE did
an excellent job, there simply wasn't enough active participation to
sustain forward momentum. The site received barely one question a day,
which in and of itself isn't a show stopping problem, but compounds
quite disturbingly with the additional following concerns:

-   We were unable to source leadership from within this community.
    While two moderators were handling the extremely light load that
    tasked them rather well, we found it alarming that we could not
    [fill a
    vacuum](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/186/a-leadership-vacuum-please-step-up)
    when another left.

-   The average time that it takes for a user to receive at least one
    answer to a question wildly fluctuates. While some questions receive
    answers in just a few minutes, many take days, weeks or months. A
    hallmark of a thriving Q&A site is the fulfillment of the
    expectation that a question will be answered quickly and
    satisfactorily, even when it doesn't receive very many questions.

-   This, your Meta site has not seen very much participation,
    especially recently. There's no evidence that a sufficient amount of
    people are still vested in the site.

This essentially echos our worst fears around [a site going
quiet](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2012/04/when-a-site-grows-quiet/),
something that presents us with no choice but to act. There are,
however, new beginnings.

### What could be done differently?

The common denominator of the concerns we have is definitely a lack of
interest in, and evangelism *of* this community. For another generation
to tackle this topic in Q&A form, they'll need to be *excruciatingly*
committed to a bit of a long haul. Long term evangelism and promotion
within the industry will be absolutely *essential* for this topic to
succeed.

Additionally, the *right* people just weren't finding your content
through search engines. Long term manicuring of questions (in
particular, titles) after doing comparative searches will definitely be
needed in order to help ensure like minds searching for knowledge
actually find you so you can engage them. Self-evaluations are designed
in part to encourage this, more skilled eyes on them should help to
ensure success.

### Thank you!

While this attempt didn't make it, there was enough *good* here to show
that the topic is definitely viable if a small but already established,
cohesive community wants to take it on in the future. To all of the
users that stayed and continued to work on the site, in particular the
remaining appointed moderators that stayed faithfully at their posts,
we'd like to extend our thanks. You folks have laid the ground work for
this topic in Q&A format.

Please use the answers below for discussion on what *you* feel could
have gone better with Libraries SE and any ideas you have for trying
again over the next few days. We look forward to seeing those that
remained active on the site trying again, with the help of new and
passionate people.

Tim Post

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">featured</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* johntait.org: Oh no. I just discovered it, and it really suits my needs.


Answer by Mary Jo Finch
----------------
Well, it's been fun. Personally, I think the main issue with a Q&A site
for librarians is that we are all researchers by training, so there just
isn't a burning need. A future site might attempt to recruit membership
among library school students, who are still learning and need answers
that are based not only on research but also on experience.

### Comments ###
* Tim Post: That is a good point. There are plenty here who can help and give
answers, just no one asking. A lot of the traffic this site received was
purely accidental, people using really broad search terms and turning up
questions by chance - not what they were looking for. I'm not sure if
there's simply not that many people searching for questions that were
answered here, or if something about the content just wasn't telling
search engines how to connect it properly - or perhaps both. It's
something to monitor closely when this is rebooted and stay on top of.
* jonsca: As I mentioned in my answer, thank you Mary Jo, for your participation
and enthusiasm. Your library is quite fortunate to have your dedication
to the profession.

Answer by jonsca
----------------
I echo Tim's "Thank you". Thank you to everyone who asked/answered a
question or flagged a question or performed an edit (etc., etc.). Thank
you for your enthusiasm for the site. Thank you to the Comm Team for
your continue support, Meta answers (especially shog9), and the whole
shebang.

As things began to dwindle, I knew that this moment might be inevitable,
but I hope that the site can find new life on Area 51 with an
enthusiastic group of overseers (I'm nodding in your direction, Mary Jo,
not to single you out, but I think you were a leader here more than you
could imagine), and perhaps with a slightly different scope.

I hope that for people that were new to Stack Exchange that this is the
end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end for your
participation on the network. Join Area 51 and make a new/better
proposal, or find another site on SE that you can enjoy and give your
passion to.

Lastly, but definitely not least, I want to thank Ashley for being a
fantastic co-mod. We faced some difficult decisions all along about
scope, and we addressed them well. It was a fun ride, and I'm sad that
it's over (for now). Would I mod with you again? YBYA, IAHB.

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: You said all the things I wanted to say. This was a fantastic ride.
* Tim Post: I'm really hoping to see the two of you lending your leadership to other
sites - you both did a fantastic job as mods.
* Mary Jo Finch: @jonsca Thank you for the kind words. I would definitely be interested
in this the future when my plate is a little less full.
* Ashley Nunn: @jonsca correct me if I am wrong, but in your last acronym, should it be
"IHAB"? or am I reading it wrong? ;) (Gotta get my fun in while I
can....)
* jonsca: @AshleyNunn Well, IHAB, too. :) Maybe it should be IAH, really.
* Ashley Nunn: @jonsca I just figured it out, what you meant. I feel silly but both
work so that's good.
* jonsca: @AshleyNunn NNTFSAA! ;)

