---
title : How do we want to handle subjective questions?
---
How do we want to handle subjective questions?
=====================
A lot of questions on this site are naturally going to be asking about
personal experiences along the lines of "how does your library handle
[this specific thing]?".

While I don't think that that is inherently a bad thing (after all, it
is one of the reasons this site was created in the first place!), I do
think that there need to be some guidelines put in place, otherwise
questions might easily devolve into things with 20 different answers
that are all valid, but ultimately not entirely helpful.

The Stack Exchange blog post about subjective questions, [Good
Subjective, Bad
Subjective](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/09/good-subjective-bad-subjective/)
talks a lot about this very issue.

It talks about needing long answers, not just one line anecdotes - work
to give all the information you can, the more detailed the better. Share
what you have done, not just your thoughts - backing up your ideas with
practical experiences makes the answers all the richer.

These are just a few of the guidelines the post mentions, and I think it
would be definitely something to keep in mind as we move forward in the
beta.

I do think that there is a definite home on this site for subjective
material, but I do think we also, as a community, need to begin (even
today!) to think about what is acceptable and what isn't - naturally,
this might change over time as more and more people begin to use the
site, but having these discussions to form our site earlier on is a lot
easier than having to make decisions later on.

What are your thoughts, fellow Libraries users? How do we feel about
subjective questions?

Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###


Answer by Jeff Atwood
----------------
> How does your library handle [this specific thing]?

Try to generalize more into

> How should *any* library handle *this concept or problem?*

Which is kinda-sorta covered in

[http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/how-to-ask](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/how-to-ask)

> ### Make it relevant to others
>
> We like to help as many people at a time as we can. Make it clear how
> your question is relevant to more people than just you, and more of us
> will be interested in your question and willing to look into it.

In short, **don't be shy about editing questions to make them more
broadly useful to other people!** And also nudge in comments as
necessary.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: This is a great point but the beauty of libraries is that they are
shaped by their community. So what may work for a public library in a
richer community may not work for a public library in a poorer
community. For example -- the library I work at does not use online
registrations for programs while many others in the county use it. We
don't because the majority of our patrons don't have computers or
Internet access at home. Academic libraries will approach a problem very
differently from a public library. Just something to keep in mine when
saying "all libraries".
* Jeff Atwood: @katie of course; but there are always commonalities to be explored and
understood.

Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
There's an important difference between *subjective* questions and
***bad*** subjective questions. As you already linked:

[**Good subjective, Bad
Subjective**](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/09/good-subjective-bad-subjective/)

… is a good read.

The *anecdotal* style question you mentioned — one that seeks to **poll
the community** — is where you tend to run into the most problems. What
is your favorite [X]? What does your library do about [X]? Even if the
the answers are not literally one-liners, those types of questions
generally do not make great questions for this type of Q&A.

A good acid test to spot these "polls" or "conversation starters" are
questions where just about *everyone* is equally qualified to pile in
their random thoughts on the subject. The question doesn't have an
*actual* answer, but is generally just opening a broad topic of
discussion for everyone to toss in their thoughts.

> You should only ask practical, answerable questions based on actual
> problems that you face. Chatty, open-ended questions diminish the
> usefulness of our site …

… from a blog post which fleshes this issue out a bit more specficially
—

[**Real questions have
answers**](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/real-questions-have-answers/)

### Comments ###

Answer by Verbeia
----------------
I am not an expert in the subject matter, but I would suggest asking
those questions in a way that *elicits* the factors that determine
different types of libraries' different choices.

So rather than

> How should any library handle this issue/problem?

the question could be asked as/edited to

> How do a library's audience, community and speciality affect how it
> can best handle [issue/problem]?

You can then imagine an answer along the lines of:

> Audience matters a lot. I used to work in a university library where
> we used [solution A]. It worked for us because the audience [did X, Y
> and Z]. But when I moved to a public library that also considered
> adopting [solution A], we found it unworkable because our most
> frequent users were [educational background/age group] and they found
> A too hard to use. So we instead used [solution B], which was not only
> easier for users but accommodated our collection of [gizmos]. I am
> also aware of a paper from [conference, with link] that suggests that
> libraries with [kind of audience] have generally had better
> experiences with adoption of [solutions] with features [P, Q and R].
>
> So when considering how to solve [problem], I would consider your main
> user groups and possibly do some trials of [solutions A and B] with a
> few volunteer users.

### Comments ###

