---
title : Are reference questions on topic?
---
Are reference questions on topic?
=====================
There have been a few questions from people asking for help finding
library resources -- the type of question a *library user* would pose at
the reference desk, rather than a question that someone in the
profession would ask. Are these questions on topic?

sheepeeh

### Comments ###


Answer by sheepeeh
----------------
I believe those questions are better directed to someplace like the
Internet Public Library, or the SE could rapidly be overwhelmed with
this sort of question. (And while our expertise helps to answer the
questions, they aren't *about* the expertise, if that makes sense.) The
exception might be a reference librarian asking for help with a question
s/he is fielding from a user.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: I agree with all of it except the part about a reference librarian
asking for help with a question. Those are still not about the
profession. I know that the YALSA listserv is filled with "help figure
out what book this is" questions & I wouldn't be surprised if there is a
similar listserv for reference librarians.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
I have to split the question into two parts:

​(1) Are reference questions asking for *facts* on-topic? No. They're on
whatever topic they're asking about, and if that's not libraries or
information science, they're off-topic for this community.

​(2) Are reference questions asking *where to find facts* on-topic? Yes.
If it's a member of the public asking about library resources, that's a
libraries question; if it's a reference librarian asking for the name of
a good resource, that's a professional expertise question within
libraries.

### Comments ###

