---
title: "What should our logo and site design look like?"
layout: default
---
What should our logo and site design look like?
=====================
This is number 5 of *[the 7 Essential Meta Questions of Every
Beta](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/07/the-7-essential-meta-questions-of-every-beta/)*.
The current design and logo is ... well, there is no design. So how
about logo, colors, borders and all this little nice stuff that makes a
site pleasant and distinct to other sites. I found browsing around
[existing stackexchange site](http://stackexchange.com/sites) very
inspiring.

My personal opinion: the design *should not only mirror the "book"
metaphor!* Libraries are not about books but about documents, which can
be articles, images, films, files, audio etc. And libraries are about
the use and exchange of documents. How about a gust of papers, videos,
cds, bits, reels, tweets, books etc. falling from the sky and a meadow
with chairs, sofas, children, researchers etc. at the bottom?

Jakob

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">design</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by Fisher
----------------
I agree that the logo and site design should be worked on. Your
suggestion is interesting; I like that it includes the data & media as
well as people. Were you thinking about that for the header? Would it be
too busy/too small for something that size (considering the top/bottom
orientation of falling material & people)?

### Comments ###

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Maybe something a bit simpler -- like the same item in several formats:
a period script of Macbeth, Macbeth in a book, Macbeth on a DVD --
representing libraries as keepers of the past and providers of the
material in changing formats.

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: I like the idea of showing libraries as keepers of the past, and also
showing how they embrace the future. That is rather neat.

Answer by phette23
----------------
I think we should also reflect the values of the profession in how we
release our logo. We should strongly consider either A) using a logo
that is already available under a Creative Commons or similar license,
or B) releasing any logo that is created under a similar license.

Ideas:

-   [The Noun Project](http://thenounproject.com/) provides great icons
    under CC licenses. Maybe something combining a
    [book](http://thenounproject.com/noun/book/),
    [library](http://thenounproject.com/noun/library/),
    [museum](http://thenounproject.com/noun/museum/), &
    [computer](http://thenounproject.com/noun/computer/)?
-   There's already a lot of great "Ask a Librarian" logos out there,
    for instance on Flickr. Could we reuse one or ask the artist to
    create a new one?


### Comments ###
* Jakob: Well, the most popular noun project "library" icon does not depict a
library but someone reading a book, but nevermind. The logo can only
depict one aspect but the general design should include more than books.

