---
title: "Are questions about programming ideas on topic?"
layout: default
---
Are questions about programming ideas on topic?
=====================
Stack Exchange is meant to be a question and answer site. Questions that
are asked should have a definite answer and should avoid being too
discussion based. There was one posted recently asking for "unique adult
programs". Are questions asking for programming ideas be on topic?

KatieR

### Comments ###


Answer by MariBar
----------------
I'm not certain that the event programming ideas question is valid from
a Stack Exchange perspective, since SE comes out of the computer
programming world where 1 question really doesn't have more than 5 right
answers. That said, I've come to SE from Unshelved Answers where this
question would have been perfectly appropriate because it is soliciting
information from engaged professionals that will allow the questioner to
do a better job/be a better professional.

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: The important thing to remember, though, is that although UA used the SE
framework back in the day, it is not representative of how SE works now.

Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
There is more of a problem here with this particular question than it
just being about library programming.

First and foremost, StackExchange is not a forum - question posts are
expected to be solving some sort of problem. This particular question,
such as it is, isn't really a question at all - there is nothing to be
solved. The only answers that this question is going to receive are
lists of what other libraries did, and everyone is going to have a
different idea on what makes their programming choices "unique".

There is no real effort in solving a problem, here - because there is no
problem here to solve. There is also no way to determine which answer is
the most correct.

From the [site FAQ](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/faq#dontask):

> To prevent your question from being flagged and possibly removed,
> avoid asking subjective questions where... every answer is equally
> valid: “What’s your favorite **\_\_**?”

Also, [this SE blog
post](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/real-questions-have-answers/)
also points out another useful tip that can be applied:

> Real questions have answers, not items or ideas or opinions.

Since this question is only ever going to get ideas and opinions, and
not answers, it is not a very good fit for the site.

This is not to say that any question about library programming is
automatically off-topic here, but it does mean that there needs to be a
concrete focus on making sure that we ask questions that are indeed
actual questions that have concrete answers. Stack Exchange is not a
forum - it is intended to help you solve problems that you face.

I realize that a lot of the content on this site will be of the more
subjective sorts of questions than, say, Stack Overflow, but that does
not mean that it is a place where anything goes. If a question about
library programming can be asked in such a way that it becomes more of a
Good Subjective question than a Bad Subjective question (see this [blog
post](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/09/good-subjective-bad-subjective/)
for more information), then I don't see why they couldn't be considered
on topic here.

### Comments ###
* KatieR: This, this, 100% this. Thank you. This is wanted I wanted to say but
couldn't seem to articulate very well.

