---
title: "Should we aim for a semi-controlled vocabulary for tags?"
layout: default
---
Should we aim for a semi-controlled vocabulary for tags?
=====================
I can think of useful tags that seem pretty normal TO ME:

-   Circulation
-   Cataloguing (or "Cataloging")
-   Administration (or "Management")
-   Interlibrary Loan

etc. And I suspect it's a Good Thing that we'll have a *de facto*
folksonomy as well. (Ask Sandy Berman about rigidly controlled subject
vocabularies sometime, especially if you don't know why you're asking
him.)

So what suggestions would you like to offer for standard
question-subject tags?

Ben Ostrowsky

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">tagging</li><li class="tag">subjects</li><li class="tag">folksonomy</li><li class="tag">controlled-vocabulary</li></ul>

### Comments ###
* dsalo: This feels like something that will shake out via tag-gardening, rather
than a priori controlled-vocabulary design. :) I'll be happy to keep an
eye on tags and bring up tag-merge questions here until we have a better
sense of best practices.


Answer by Jakob
----------------
I don't argue to use an existing classification instead of user-provide
tags, but it should be worth to have a look at existing indexing schemes
in library and information science:

-   [JITA Classification Schema of Library and Information
    Science](http://eprints.rclis.org/cms/jita/)
-   [ASIS&T Thesaurus of Information Science, Technology, and
    Librarianship](http://books.infotoday.com/asist/TheInfoSciLib3.shtml)
    (2005)
-   Thesaurus of Library and Information Science Terms (ISBN 8170003784)
-   LISA Subject Headings
-   ...

The fact that most of these schemes are not publically available tells
us something about the role of library and information science in the
digital age. :-(

So the best scheme is probably Wikipedia/DBPedia. A tag is choosen well,
if there is a Wikipedia article about its subject. In addition we could
include [terms from ODLIS](http://www.abc-clio.com/ODLIS/odlis_A.aspx).

### Comments ###
* Tatjana Heuser: +1 Didn't know ODLIS, and found it a crucial resource.

Answer by Anna Lear
----------------
I'm not sure if you're suggesting restricting the list of available tags
or just coming up with a list of possible tags to use in questions, so
I'll try to hit both points.

Ignoring for the moment that there is no way to pre-create tags or to
enforce that only existing tags are used, you might find it best to let
tags grow naturally.

It'd be difficult to predict which questions will be asked or how
they're best discovered through tagging. Over time, you should end up
with a decent set of tags that accurately reflects the topics of the
various questions you have.

Now, of course, there's room for interpretation here and sometimes there
will be two or more tags referring to the same thing. Then you can pick
the canonical version (by asking here on meta, if needed) and set up
[tag
synonyms](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/70710/what-are-tag-synonyms-how-do-they-work).

Last but not least, as you (as a community) work on your tags, keep an
eye out for [meta
tags](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/08/the-death-of-meta-tags/) and
do your best to avoid them.

### Comments ###

