---
title : Who should our moderators be?
---
Who should our moderators be?
=====================
One of the essential questions we are supposed to ask ourselves as a
beta site is who the mods should be. When a SE site first hits beta, a
few [pro-tem
mods](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/07/moderator-pro-tempore/) are
selected. As the linked post states,

> This is a temporary, short-term appointment. Moderators Pro Tem focus
> and expedite the essential needs of each new site. By the end of Beta,
> the community will be better suited to hold their own elections.

So, for now, we should take a look at who is interested in doing such a
thing. Some basic rules to keep in mind:

-   A person interested in being a mod posts an answer featuring
    username and the link to the profile, plus an optional why-me text.
-   If you think someone might make an awesome mod here, nominate them
    and then poke them in
    [chat](http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/3517/libraries-and-information-science)
    and let them know of the potential opportunity! If you're nominated
    and aren't interested, please post a comment or edit the nomination
    to decline.
-   Users express their support/negation by voting, and support
    words/doubts as comments.
-   The SE team uses this information as a guideline of who to choose as
    moderators.


Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###
* Joe: I'd wait a bit before making any decisions ... and those with high rep
aren't necessarily the best moderators. Look for those who tend to vote
a lot (I tend to look at their ratio of up/down votes, too), and who are
active for a while ... you don't want someone who's going to be strong
for a month, then move on to something else when it's lost its novelty.
* Anna Lear: @Joe No decisions will be made right away, but posts like this one are
very helpful to us when we're trying to select the initial set of
moderators. Things to look for are voting, editing, commenting...
basically activities aimed at improving the site and helping it grow.
* M. Alan Thomas II: How many moderators are we looking for? I'm a WikiGnome type who would
like to handle flags as part of keeping the place straightened up but
might not be as good at the discussion leadership and liason parts; a
larger team can have someone like that, a smaller team needs more
all-rounders. (I'll move this to its own question if there isn't a
StackExchange standard answer already.)
* Anna Lear: @M.AlanThomasII We typically start by selecting 3 moderators.
* Wooble: I'd throw my hat in the ring, but since as primarily a Stack Overflow
user I'd be inclined to close about 75% of the questions that have been
posted so far as Not Constructive, I'm probably not in agreement with
the community about the direction the site should go.
* dsalo: Decline as well. I'm actually not even slightly in agreement with
StackExchange's ideas about what is and isn't constructive, so I'd be,
shall we say, a destructive mod. Happy to keep answering questions;
completely disinclined to ask any.
* M. Alan Thomas II: A lot of the users here have graduate education in proper selection, not
to mention classification and tagging, which will hopefully make this
one of the more self-moderating communities. (It's a very tight-knit
professional community in general, as well.) I'll give this a little
while and then throw my hat in the ring if it looks like it's both
needed and useful.
* Manishearth: @dsalo: Well, if you compare SE to various fora, then yes, the NC
doesn't makes sense. But, SE is trying pretty hard to not be one of
those rampant fora which are only useful to the OP and nobody else. That
being said, sometimes I do feel that certain posts ought to be
historical locked instead of being deleted outright.
* Joe: @dsalo : I never said I'd follow SE's rules ... I said I'd moderate. I'm
all for finding creative interpretations in my favor for rules that I
don't find to be constructive. (ps. typical tee shirts have a 'crew neck
collar', therefore, they qualify as a 'shirt with a collar'.)


Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
I will happily throw my hat into the ring. (If I had an actual hat.)

I'm [Ashley
Nunn](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/users/22/ashley-nunn) - I have
been using the network for a while now - I am mostly active on Gaming,
where I am a 10k user who loves to help out with the various tools and
responsibilities and such. I believe in at least trying to leave
comments along the way to help people learn how the SE network works. :D

I don't have a huge pile of library experience, per se - I work in
Inter-Library Loans at the University of Waterloo while I work on
getting my undergrad degree in English (if I have my way, it will be a
Rhetoric and Professional Writing degree, with specializations in
Digital Media and Global Literature), and eventually I want to go to U
of Toronto to get my Masters of Information in Library Science and
Archives and Records Management. Been working in ILL for about a year
now. It's pretty much the most awesome thing.

So yeah. That's me. :D

### Comments ###
* phette23: I think experience with SE is more important in a moderator than
experience with librarianship. Happily upvoting you.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Upvote: Both SE and library experience (and interest) and an excellent
record on both Meta and Main.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
I'm [M. Alan Thomas
II](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/users/345/m-alan-thomas-ii).
I was active on Unshelved Answers, I was active during the definition
phase of this proposal, I even popped in occasionally during the (test
of our) commitment phase, and now I'm active here. I've spent a little
time hanging out on other SE sites in the interim, but this is pretty
much the only one I've got an attachment to.

I'm a
[WikiGnome](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aWikiGnome)-type
user. I'm more active on Meta than Main. My impulse is to comment and
vote more than ask and answer questions. I've raised helpful flags. I've
submitted a variety of retagging suggestions on individual posts, I've
written tag wiki entries, and I'm the only person using the
[[tag-synonyms](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/tag-synonyms)]
tag here so far. Of course, with my reputation, all of that still
requires authorization from others. (Even my questions on Meta so far
are really just there to see if people agree that the moderators should
do something.)

So. I'm never going to get rich, reputation-wise, writing brilliant
questions or answers, but I'd like to help behind the scenes as this
place works its way through Beta and beyond. Maybe someday, if
everything is humming along smoothly and there are good candidates to
take my place, I'll quietly bow out and go back to just pottering
around, but right now I feel that someone has to work on all of those
bits that everyone uses but no-one thinks about.

Obligatory "professional qualifications and associations" block:
M.S.–L.I.S. from Ilinois, ALA, IFRT, LIRT, GameRT, OIF supporter, FTRF.
Trained as an information scientist for academia, working as a reference
librarian in a public library; go figure.

* * * * *

I believe that at least one of our three mods should be a professional,
expert member of the LIS community, with or without SE experience,
rather than someone who wouldn't qualified to ask or answer questions
here but does have experience on other SE sites. Not only do we need at
least one subject-matter expert to handle those moments when one is
called for, but if the community is to determine for itself exactly how
it is going to work—and other SE sites such as Programmers.SE and RPG.SE
have made choices contrary to the global SE norms—then it shouldn't be
moderated entirely by people whose purpose is to ensure that that
doesn't happen.

### Comments ###
* MDMarra: No offense, but just from seeing you pop up on the site here and there,
I'm not sure that you would be a good fit as a moderator. Your
professional qualifications are obviously good, but I don't think that
you've got a good grasp on the inner working of the SE network yet. For
example, you CW a lot of things, especially in meta. There's really no
point to doing that. Also, you've taken some creative liberties with
some edits on the main site. Edits should be used to clarify a muddled
question or to correct obvious errors, not to re-write a question to
have a different intent than before.
* MDMarra: Don't get me wrong, I think that you could be a very valuable member of
the community, because of your professional experience, but if you take
the rep from this site and A51 (which isn't a traditional SE site) away,
you've only got 180ish rep from RPG. While rep isn't a good indicator of
who would or wouldn't be a good mod, it is a good indicator of
participation. It seems that you have almost none before this site
launched, so it would be hard to support you as a moderator when you
still seem to be figuring out the rules here yourself. Mods should know
how SE works before appointment.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I assume you're talking about
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/691/345 and
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/q/703/345 as to the edits; I
acknowledged my error, submitted a reversion, and have volunteered to
delete my question if the original is salvageable by the OP. And it
appears that the OP has now salvage it . . . although he thanked
\*\*me\*\* for my edit and being the only person who pointed out \*how\*
to salvage it rather than just criticizing him. In other words, I taught
a new user something rather than standing around and saying "That's not
how things work here."
* M. Alan Thomas II: Also, CW lowers the rep threshold for editing without approval and I've
sometimes wanted to encourage unified answers rather than fragmented
discussions. If I'm in error there, please teach me how things should be
done and I will try to learn.
* MDMarra: CWs are an artifact from the early days of Stack Exchange. Originally,
they were designed to be a way for "off topic" discussions. That was
bad. They've mostly hung around for historical reasons and are primarily
only used for canonical questions and answers. In normal usage, if an
answer is only slightly incomplete, a below-threshold user can submit a
minor edit for approval. If an answer is very incomplete, then users are
encouraged to create their own, complete, answer. If low-rep users are
encouraged to contribute to an answer that doesn't gain them rep,
they'll never be able to edit.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Yes, my prior experience has mostly been on SE 1.0 than 2.0. This site
took so long to get out of beta because we had so few 2.0 users because
very few of the 2.0 sites were of any interest to those in our fields.
(And if I have few accounts, it's in part because I deleted those that I
wasn't likely to use in the future, especially now that this is open;
don't just count the numbers and assume you know the whole story.)
* MDMarra: In fact, a user below the edit threshold that has an edit approved is
given +2. There is also a badge for using \`/review\` to approve and
reject suggested edits by users below the threshold. The quality of
content on SE is controlled by these checks and balances. Inviting
anyone to always edit anything negates that and will, undoubtedly, lower
the quality. Once a user has a certain amt of rep, then they're
"trusted" for certain tasks. If they're below that, they should go
through the approval process. Basically, there are very few legit
reasons to CW anything nowadays.
* MDMarra: Sorry if you feel offended by my comments, but look at some of the
failed SEs that had long beta like Literature. They lacked clear
direction and broke down to book recommendations and discussions.
Wanting to put your unique community's footprint on the site is fine.
Wanting it to follow completely different rules than other SEs will get
the plug pulled. There's more that goes into the decision to launch a
site than just Qs/As/visits. It has to generate \*quality\* content.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I take no personal offense; I just happen to disagree with you
sometimes. I also think that we're in danger of losing participation if
the community gets the impression, however erroneous, that there's an
arrogant, heavy hand coming down from above to change things from what
the community needs to "Well, \*we've\* always done it \*this\* way, so
\*this\* is better." You're probably right in many cases, and my record
here shows that I accept consensus even when I don't like it (e.g.,
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/q/81/345), but I am going to
make the case for an alternate position first.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Oh, and thanks for being the only person to explain \*why\* they
disapprove of me; I've gotten at least 5 downvotes—I was up to +7 at one
point—but I don't know what I'm doing wrong if no-one tells me.
* Joe: Here's the main reason for my downvote -- you're asking so many
questions on the main site that I don't think you really care about the
answers to. You're wording the question like you already know the
answer, and are guiding people to your already percieved 'correct'
answer. We had a problem in the early days of cooking.SE with one user
(a Stack Exchange employee, even), doing a similar thing, and it was
found they were actually plagerizing questions from other sites. In your
case, one of the questions you "asked" was one I had posted to Area 51.
From this, you come off as artificial.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I thought the site needed a certain critical mass of popular questions
to start attracting interest, and the Area 51 questions with sufficient
up-votes that could be transformed into appropriate questions for a real
SE site looked like a good starting point. We're currently at 3.4 Q/day
now that the initial rush has died off, and I'm trying to help. Quite a
few people once thought that those were good questions, even if they
need adaptation for a real SE site.
* M. Alan Thomas II: The one thing I can't be accused of is not trying, at least. I write
questions, I vote on answers, I vote on comments, I flag things, I edit
my own questions when people suggest improvements, I improve tags, I
edit the tag wiki, I've suggested tag synonyms that have gotten adopted,
. . . . Maybe I'm not the best moderator. I get into arguments with
people, even if I accept the consensus against me. But, you know, the
other 3 candidates have asked a total of 2 questions on Main between
them; I've asked 22. (Meta: 5 total for them vs. 9 for me.)
* Joe: ... and I've asked a total of [10 "questions" on
cooking.SE](http://cooking.stackexchange.com/users/67/joe) (one's not
really a question) ... yet I was a moderator. It's not about asking
questions. You seem to me to be trying a little \*too\* hard to be a
moderator. I mean, I'm happy someone wants the job, but you seem a
little over-eager, and [that makes me think of a HHTGTG
quote.](http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/show/2416)

Answer by MDMarra
----------------
Since there seems to be a lack of desire for moderators, I would
volunteer to be a temportary moderator while the site is getting off of
the ground. While I have very litte personal experience with
librarianship or library science, my fiancee (@KatieR), has been very
active here. [I am 25k+ on
ServerFault](http://serverfault.com/users/10472/mdmarra) and [13k+ on
SuperUser](http://superuser.com/users/2855/mdmarra) as well as having
[1.6k on mSO](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/users/143112/mdmarra).

On ServerFault, I have [lots of
badges](http://serverfault.com/users/10472/mdmarra?tab=badges). Some of
the ones that point to good community involvement include:
[Electorate](http://serverfault.com/badges/75/electorate),
[Constituent](http://serverfault.com/badges/198/constituent?userid=10472),
[Reviewer](http://serverfault.com/badges/168/reviewer), [Strunk &
White](http://serverfault.com/badges/12/strunk-white), and
[Announcer](http://serverfault.com/badges/90/announcer). I was the first
on the site to get Reviewer, which is given for using the 10k tools to
review and act on a certain number of posts deemed in need of review by
the system.

Even though I'm not a library professional, I have a firm understanding
of how the Stack Exchange networks work. I do **not** think that I would
want to be a long-term moderator, but I would love to be a pro-tem mod
during the formation of this community. I think that it could be very
useful, but will also need a lot of pruning, because of the subjective
nature of librarianship. This site will need good leadership during beta
to keep it on-topic and relevant and I think that I can help with that!

### Comments ###
* Manishearth: Just because you're not a professional doesn't mean you won't make a
good mod. Most of mod work requires familiarity but not expertise with
the subject matter. [Without any expertise in chem, I still got
appointed mod
there](http://meta.chemistry.stackexchange.com/a/115/22)--I was also
told by Aarthi that expertise is not necessary. So you're good, though I
can relate to the apprehensiveness of your mod nomination :)

Answer by Joe
----------------
As we have a need for pro-tem moderators, I'll volunteer, but with a
restriction that I can only do this short term -- I won't be able to
devote much time to it once we hit mid-november or so, due to my busy
winter/spring conference schedule.

So, qualifications :

-   I have experience in moderating Stack Exchange sites as [I was a
    pro-tem moderator](http://cooking.stackexchange.com/users/67/joe) on
    [Seasoned Advice (aka.
    Cooking.SE)](http://cooking.stackexchange.com/)
-   I'm an active member of a library Friends group, overseeing our
    branch's book sale.
-   I'm an active member of [ASIS&T](http://www.asis.org/), having
    helped to organize the last two [RDAP](http://rdap12.posterous.com/)
    summits.
-   I'm a member of ALA (LITA / ACRL / ALTAFF), but not active (never
    been to any of their meetings)
-   I pseudo-lurk (failed lurking?) on the
    [code4lib](http://www.code4lib.org/),
    [ngc4lib](http://dewey.library.nd.edu/mailing-lists/ngc4lib/) and
    [PAMNET](http://pam.sla.org/manual/pamnet-information/) mailing
    lists

As for library cred ... I was the one who added categorization to
Fark.com. (and then left after a falling out when Drew insisted on
adding one then misusing it (weird == related to the paranormal; we
already had strange) and then went and added a synonym (except for
'weird', all of the categories had a strong 'S' sound, but someone
didn't like 'spiffy', so 'cool' was added, screwing up my color scheme).

I also had proposed to try to get the Cooking.SE group to work on a
multilingual (multi-dialect?) thesaurus for cooking terms, but [started
a community
wiki](http://cooking.stackexchange.com/questions/784/translating-cooking-terms-between-us-uk-au-ca-nz)
before the SE staff started blindly closing stuff that didn't fit into
the StackExchange Q/A norm.

### Comments ###

