---
title: "How do we spread the word about our awesome site?"
layout: default
---
How do we spread the word about our awesome site?
=====================
So, after a long time chilling in Area51, we have made it to public
beta. This is a pretty awesome thing - and we seem to be rolling pretty
well with it. Lots of good questions and answers happening on a variety
of library topics, which is cool to see!

Anyone committed to the beta is aware of the site, but now we are open
to anyone! How can we get the word out to the world at large that LIS.SE
exists and is awesome? There are a large variety of libraries and
library groups out there that I am sure would love to be a part of this
awesomeness.

How can we get the word out? Similar to [this
question](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/11/how-and-when-do-we-get-the-ala-involved-in-this-site-and-how-involved-do-we-let)
- how do we let people know we are here? How can we spread the word far
and wide (and not just necessarily online, either!)?

Ashley Nunn

### Comments ###


Answer by dsalo
----------------
I've been tweeting it, and my tweets have gotten a fair few RTs, so
that's something... but too much tweeting the same thing becomes
tweetspam.

One thing [DH Answers](http://digitalhumanities.org/answers/) does that
we might emulate is auto-posting new questions to a dedicated Twitter
account. For those of us who follow Twitter, that's easier to monitor
than having the LibStEx site open, or remembering to check it.

I plan to show LibStEx to my lib-tech students; with luck that will
bring in more folks.

### Comments ###
* andrea: a dedicated twitter feed would be excellent. we should include both the
regular and meta questions.
* dsalo: Who should set up and own said Twitter account? I don't mind doing it,
but I could be run over by a semi or something (ugh, my bike commute
this morning was not fun). Ideas?
* Peter Murray: FYI, Ed Summers added a function to the Code4Lib IRC bot that
automatically posts an in-channel message when a new question is asked.
* M. Alan Thomas II: This sounds like an awesome function, but I'm not sure it's what you'd
call an answer to the initial problem of getting people to know about it
in the first place.
* dsalo: Interesting questions get retweeted and land in front of new eyes, is
one way.
* Jakob: There is more than Twitterland out there. I guess that offline media and
presenting this page at meetings will attract more participants.
* Manishearth: There already is a dedicated Twitter account.
http://twitter.com/\#!/StackLibraries

Answer by Melissa
----------------
Share the site on library listservs? \
 Blog about it? \
 E-mail all of our librarian friends? \
 Stand on the street corner dressed as the Statue of Liberty holding a
sign? OK, maybe the sign is too much ...

### Comments ###
* Ashley Nunn: I like how it is the sign, not the costume, that is too much... ;)

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
A note in your local professional newsletter/bulletin, an e-mail to your
co-workers (if applicable), a post on relevant mailing lists, plus of
course all of the relevant personal social media (Twitter, Facebook,
Tumblr, Google+, LinkedIn, &c.). . . . How do you announce anything?

I myself have submitted something to the *LibraryJournal* Tumblr, which
is read by a lot of library-loving, technology-literate people; here's
hoping they publish it.

### Comments ###

Answer by Jakob
----------------
Just briefly present LibStEx at meetings in your organization, among
colleagues, at workshops and at conferences. Mouth-to-mouth is still
underestimated among us, used to do digital-to-digital communication so
much.

### Comments ###

Answer by Manishearth
----------------
Few things you can do (some stuff taken from my post
[here](http://meta.chemistry.stackexchange.com/questions/147/what-can-i-do-for-this-site)):

-   Create a community promotion ad and post on a graduated site. Maybe
    on
    [English](http://meta.english.stackexchange.com/questions/2223/community-promotion-ads-2012)
    ([They already have one for Lit.SE, but that may be removed since
    the site was
    closed](http://meta.english.stackexchange.com/a/2296/17952)).
    [Mathematica.SE](http://meta.mathematica.stackexchange.com/questions/160/what-would-be-a-good-community-promotion-ad)
    and [chem.SE](http://meta.chemistry.stackexchange.com/a/140/22) have
    done so on Physics.
-   Create an A4(or whatever) poster for your users to print out and
    stick somewhere. [We did that on
    chem](http://meta.chemistry.stackexchange.com/a/134/22)
-   Write an awesome blog post, like [this one by a TW
    mod](http://www.thickbook.com/2012/02/dear-stackexchange-will-you-be-my-valentine/)
-   Encourage colleagues/classmates/friends(who have a background in the
    site topic) to join. Tell them how awesome we are!
-   Try to get more experts engaged. Remember, the more experts you
    have, the better the site is (we don't want to degrade into Yahoo!
    Answers)
-   Retweet the upvoted questions posted by
    [@StackLibraries](http://twitter.com/#!/StackLibraries)


### Comments ###

