---
title: "Where is the line between the Digital Preservation and Libraries stack exchange sites?"
layout: default
---
Where is the line between the Digital Preservation and Libraries stack exchange sites?
=====================
I keep wanting to post digital preservation questions here; I've seen
that some DP related questions have already surfaced in the Q&A. For
those that are not aware, there is another stack exchange proposal for
"Digital Preservation" in the works. I'm a bit confused where the line
is between questions appropriate to Digital Preservation and those
appropriate to Libraries.

A quick look at the name tags shows there are quite a few DP folks
lurking/participating already--so maybe there is a clear distinction
that I'm just missing but our guru's will point out.

Just curious, is there a way for moderators to move questions from one
site to another?

AaronC

### Comments ###
* mgkrebbs: Yes, moderators can migrate questions to another SE site; happens all
the time on many sites.


Answer by Ed Summers
----------------
I think the DP proposal should be withdrawn and we should just talk
about those issues here.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: We have agreed that archivist questions are on-topic here because
archivists frequently get educated in the same schools and degree
programs as librarians and information scientists and form part of the
same community, and I can't see how DP isn't in-line with archiving.
And, of course, librarians and information scientists may both have
direct interests in digital preservation, such preservation is
frequently through a library or archive, &c.
* Paul Wheatley: At the moment it looks like LIS and DP need each other. LIS is hardly
taking off like a rocket, but the DP folks are making a useful
contribution. DP SE is of course stuck in area51 and not going anywhere
fast. So having DP coverage in LIS is enabling the DP support to build.
I'd suggest not making any sudden moves. We have the option to
split/move or fully combine at any time. We may as well do that when
we're sure they will survive/thrive better on their own (or otherwise).
* Ed Summers: I'm having trouble understanding what you are saying Paul. I agree LIS
and DP need each other, which is why I'd prefer to have them both
discussed in the same place.
* Paul Wheatley: I'm suggesting we should not make a decision on this now. Carry on as we
are for now. If it turns out we want to withdraw DP later on that's
fine. Don't reduce our options now: just in case.
* Ed Summers: @PaulWheatley that seems to be in the mostly harmless category, since it
is what we are doing now :-D However, I would encourage digital
preservation practitioners to participate in the site, and not wait for
some miracle to occur.
* Paul Wheatley: Ed: yes indeed. I've been doing my best to drum up support in this neck
of the woods...

Answer by Ashley Nunn
----------------
Digital Preservation seems like it would fit as a subset of questions
here - there seems to be a lot of overlap.

As for merging/migrating questions - this is a possibility - mods do
have the ability to migrate questions from site to site (for example,
when the Literature beta site closed, a bunch of the questions from
there got moved to SciFi.SE). People with enough rep to vote to close
also have the ability to suggest some migrations, but that is pretty
limited. You can also flag questions and suggest they be migrated.
However, I don't know how that would work for a beta proposal - I have
no idea if it is something that should happen, let alone if it is even
possible.

### Comments ###

Answer by sheepeeh
----------------
The difficulty with shifting digital preservation here comes from the
proposal stage--there was some discussion about the lines of
library/information science and a lot of people seemed to want the site
to focus exclusively on libraries. The archives and museum communities
also have a huge stake (larger, I would argue) in digital preservation,
but often not so much a stake in libraries.

That said, I think DP is going to have a tough time getting the required
high rep users, and if there's consensus that "information science"
includes "cultural heritage" more broadly, I think it makes a lot of
sense to include DP questions on the LIS SE.

### Comments ###

Answer by Trevor Owens
----------------
There is overlap in the Venn diagram between libraries and digital
preservation but there are a lot of people working in digital
preservation who are not involved with libraries at all.

1.  Science data managers
2.  Professional photographers ([there are digital preservation
    questions on the Photo
    SE](http://photo.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/digital-preservation))
3.  Folks in various entertainment media industries (music, film)
4.  Museum professionals ([which it sounds like people don't think fits
    here](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/14/are-questions-about-archives-on-topic-and-should-they-be-solicited-somehow))
5.  Computer scientists and engineers working on storage media.
6.  Folks working on digital media for news organizations
7.  Anyone involved in Digital Asset Management

This is to say that there are a lot of people who work on digital
preservation that do not think what they do has anything to do with
libraries. While "information science" was appended to the libraries SE
title, in practice, the title seems to suggest that this space is about
things that happen in libraries and things that people with MILS degrees
do. (In the broadest sense it would seem like "information science"
could be a catch all category for a lot of different stack exchange
sites.)

### Comments ###
* Jakob: We could discuss more about wording and disciplines, for instance
"information science" once was "documentation science", but in short
most people you listed actually manage a library and/or an archive, no
matter if it's given that name.
* Trevor Owens: I would be happy to agree that everybody on that list manages a
collection of things, so if that is what we mean by library then yes.
However, that is a rather expansive definition of a library.
* Ed Summers: I'm not disagreeing, I'm just not sure the digital preservation stack
exchange is of broad enough interest to be supportable. Heck, libraries
barely is. I guess I'm thinking that for field of "libraries" and
"archives" to survive they must broaden the scope of their work to
include the domains you listed above Trevor.
* Trevor Owens: Thanks Ed, Yeah, I think the digital preservation questions are working
great on here. So no real need to push for something different unless
this really takes off.

Answer by jonsca
----------------
I wanted to draw everyone's attention to a recent answer given in the
Discuss area of Area 51 to the following
[question](http://discuss.area51.stackexchange.com/questions/5821/merging-digital-preservation-libraries-information-science):

> Rather than focus the time to discuss a mechanical merger and figure
> out who is for or against, why not sate yourselves for now on what is
> already on-topic for Libraries? Feel the merge potential, rather than
> talk about it. You don't need the merger for approval to ask on the
> site. Might as well ask now rather than waiting for Digital
> Preservation to launch.
>
> That'll be a much better judge of the appropriateness of whether the
> Digital Preservation community would be happy sitting in the same
> site. See how everyone fits with what intersection already exists, and
> consequently work out from there if people are happy with the current
> state, or if a separate site is best.

That is an answer from [Grace
Note](http://discuss.area51.stackexchange.com/users/1288/grace-note) one
of the Community Managers here on SE.

So, please, test the waters with your DP questions on Libraries.SE!
Allow your efforts to define the site and its eventual FAQ.

(any opposing viewpoints can of course weight in on our Meta here or in
A51 itself)

### Comments ###

Answer by Paul Wheatley
----------------
So the [Digital Preservation stack has finally reached 100%
commitment](http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/39787/digital-preservation)
and it's been a few months since this question has been considered. So
what do we do now? Having previously sat on the fence, I'm now more in
favour of going with a dedicated DP site. I think this would have the
dual benefits of making it easier to expand the user base to some of the
other communities mentioned above in Trevor's post, while allowing
moderation and scope to be tuned more appropriately for the specific
needs of a DP stack.

### Comments ###

