---
title: "What's the etiquette for dealing with promotional answers?"
layout: default
---
What's the etiquette for dealing with promotional answers?
=====================
Specifically inspired by [this
answer](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/264/how-to-keep-high-security-standards-while-allowing-self-checkout/447#447).

The wording of the answer, combined with the user listing the same URL
as their website on their profile, makes this seem pretty obviously like
self-promotion.

The FAQ sayeth:

> Be careful, because the community frowns on overt self-promotion and
> tends to vote it down and flag it as spam. Post good, relevant
> answers, and if some (but not all) happen to be about your product or
> website, so be it. However, you must disclose your affiliation in your
> answers.

So, what's the way to deal with these kinds of questions? Comment, edit,
or both? Or is a one-off promotional post on an appropriate question
"harmless?"

John Flatness

### Comments ###


Answer by KatieR
----------------
Not "harmless", that's for sure. If we allow this to continue, it won't
be long before there are companies that sell to libraries flooding
answers strictly to advertise their brands.

Comment that self-promotion without a statement about being affiliated
with the company is not appropriate for the site. Just like the FAQ
says, "you must disclose your affiliation in your answers."

### Comments ###

Answer by Fisher
----------------
In that particular instance, based on both the answer & profile, that it
is spam and should be flagged as such for a moderator to take care of.

As for promotion in general, I think it depends on the case. Mentioning
a product you've used and have experience with and is relevant to
answering the question is within the bounds of acceptable promotion. As
you and KatieR quoted, promoting your own creation/business/etc without
acknowledging your association is against the rules.

### Comments ###

