---
title : Should [profession] be killed before it snowballs?
---
Should [profession] be killed before it snowballs?
=====================
[profession](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/profession "show questions tagged 'profession'")
seems like it's a bad tag. I can't see how it would be useful or
beneficial in classifying a question. Should it be killed before it
gains traction and ends up on every question asked about the profession
of being a librarian?

MDMarra

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: After a week, you've got four votes in favor of the tag and none against
other than your own. Neither has the tag snowballed thus far; there's
just the one question. (A better reason for getting rid of it than
overuse is!) Can we accept an answer and move on?
* MDMarra: Uh, in case you missed it, my question is +7. Meta votes don't give rep,
and are ment as agree/disagree. That means that there are 7 people that
agree.
* M. Alan Thomas II: It's not clear to me how many of those indicate agreement with the point
being made and how many indicate that people think that this is a
positive discussion to be having (i.e., agreement with the nature of the
discussion). I think that this is an important discussion to be having
and raises a point that should be addressed, I'd just rather do it in a
different way. Should I be up-voting you or down-voting you?
* MDMarra: I'm suggesting that the tag be destroyed. If you disagree, you should be
downvoting my answer. That's how metas work. All votes are free and
there is no rep change on meta because of this.
* M. Alan Thomas II: You don't have an answer, you only have a question. If what you say is
how it works at other sites and should therefore work here, I've
misunderstood the FAQ and been doing Metas wrong since this site
started. (Oh, and I know there's no rep change here. I really don't
care; I'm a gnome, not a rep-monger.)
* MDMarra: That was a question. I meant to say "If you disagree, then you should be
downvoting my question." On sites where I'm 10k+ and active, I wouldn't
accept an answer that has one or two upvotes. I'd accept an answer from
a Mod or SE employee on the topic, or an answer from a community member
that has a substantial amount of votes. Two votes isn't enough to get a
check box on this topic. Sorry :)
* M. Alan Thomas II: Well, too late; votes are locked unless you edit it. If you think you
have a quorum, either summon a mod or just untag all 1 "profession"
questions to destroy the tag yourself.
* MDMarra: Maybe take a peak at the [What does voting mean
here](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/faq\#vote-differences)
section.
* M. Alan Thomas II: let us [continue this discussion in
chat](http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/3713/discussion-between-m-alan-thomas-ii-and-mdmarra)
* MDMarra: @M.AlanThomasII And how exactly does one "summon a mod" on a site that
doesn't have mods yet? :) Just be patient, not sure why you're so
concerned about this right now.
* MDMarra: [This](http://meta.serverfault.com/questions/1405/please-burninate-the-server-tag),
for example, is a good model for how tag requests/concerns are typically
handled on a meta. A user asks a question with the suggestion. People
vote, then when a decision is made, a mod/employee (Jeff in this case)
answers with the decision which is then marked as accepted. There's no
point in accepting an answer that doesn't have \*\*overwhelming\*\*
agreement if it's not from someone in a position to enforce it.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Please switch to the chat linked above; this thread is going to need
cleanup at some point, and I'd like to keep that reasonably sane.
* M. Alan Thomas II: There. Added [tag:tag-deletion], so now people can change their votes,
whatever it was they were voting on.
* MDMarra: Why would this need to be cleaned up? Meta questions frequently have
extended discussion and it should only be removed if it isn't topical.
Take a look at meta.stackoverflow, the governing body for the whole
network, they're are frequently extremely long comment threads involving
community members, mods, and employees.


Answer by Peter Murray
----------------
I added that tag because I thought there should be a tag for questions
about the profession versus tags for library operations or equipment or
policies. I'm happy to have the discussion here in meta, though.

### Comments ###
* Deborah Mould: Initially I thought that this tag should be removed; but after
re-reading the related question and this comment, this is the most
appropriate tag. And you asked the question @M.AlanThomasII - although I
don't think that this would be a common tag.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
That's a valid concern, but I think in this case it depends on how it's
defined. For example, I saw a question about Cutter numbers the other
day, and while librarians do use them professionally, I don't see how
the *question* is in any way about the profession of being a librarian
or information scientist; it's about cataloging, not the profession. You
see the difference? I'll see about making a tag wiki entry to clarify
this and promote proper usage. If it turns out to be a problem, we can
discuss removing it at that time.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Incidentally, the tag wiki's been up since the 3rd or so if anyone wants
to check my work.

