---
title: "Are book store questions on topic?"
layout: default
---
Are book store questions on topic?
=====================
What kind of questions are appropriate to ask for somebody who works at
a book store?

Example subjects:

-   Book store classification systems
-   Bookseller's and customer interaction
-   Stocking, i.e. suggestions for seasonal book selling
-   Floor planning and store environment
-   Promotion and events


Ambo100

### Comments ###


Answer by Jakob
----------------
Libraries are not about books but about organized collections of
documents. Book store questions may be on topic same as file management
questions. For instance you could ask about how to manage your private
collection of images. How about questions abnout Picasa, Flickr, Youtube
etc.? These are all digital libraries as well. I am fine with book store
questions but it's not the "book" which makes these questions on-topic,
but the collection of books.

### Comments ###

Answer by Kode
----------------
Book stores have a completely different motive than libraries and they
exist in a seperate ecosystem too. There is some overlap but bookstores
in general would probably be better served by going to a more general
"retail store" type forum. Libraries have their own niche apart from
book stores and thus I would say no such queries are not on topic.

### Comments ###

Answer by blunders
----------------
I'd say yes, in fact, bookstore were some of the best "libraries" for
some collections (for example, tech/computer books), but the fact is
that they're rapidly going away, and likely will completely go away
within the next 3-10 years.

### Comments ###

Answer by MariBar
----------------
All of the sample topics posed could equally come out of the public
library setting: from the discussion of most [user-friendly
classification](http://www.libraryjournal.com/article/CA6698264.html),
to the perennial need for book/item displays. My library looks to
bookstores for event & marketing ideas. As Jacob pointed out, both
places are trying to organize and provide access to content. Aside from
questions about how to liquidate 50 boxes of unsold holiday merchandise,
I can't think of an inappropriate question. (Even then, I would say take
it to your local library and they will use it in craft-time!)

### Comments ###

