---
title: "Should [interlibrary] be made a synonym of [interlibrary-loan]?"
layout: default
---
Should [interlibrary] be made a synonym of [interlibrary-loan]?
=====================
As of this writing,
[interlibrary](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/interlibrary "show questions tagged 'interlibrary'")
has 2 questions (one tagged both
[interlibrary](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/interlibrary "show questions tagged 'interlibrary'")
and
[loan](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/loan "show questions tagged 'loan'"))
and
[interlibrary-loan](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/interlibrary-loan "show questions tagged 'interlibrary-loan'")
has 2. Obviously these are intended to be the same category, so I've
submitted retagging edits for the two [interlibrary] questions. However,
this may not be sufficient to indicate a need for a synonym, and people
may wish to disagree with my preference for [interlibrary-loan] over
[interlibrary].

M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">status-deferred</li><li class="tag">tag-synonyms</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
I believe that this does indicate a need for a synonym, as clearly we
are experiencing splintering in the tag structure and the full name of
interlibrary loan is more understandable to people who don't deal with
the subject regularly (and therefore might have questions about it) and
will show up when people do searches for the full phrase. Furthermore,
one of the prior [interlibrary] questions appears to have been by
someone who simply didn't understand how to make multi-word tags, as it
was tagged [interlibrary][loan].

### Comments ###
* dsalo: I think this is fine. Can we synonymize "ILL" while we're at it, as a
sort of preemptive strike?

Answer by Anna Lear
----------------
Since the questions have been retagged,
[interlibrary](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/interlibrary "show questions tagged 'interlibrary'")
doesn't exist anymore. If someone goes to type it in when posting a
question,
[interlibrary-loan](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/interlibrary-loan "show questions tagged 'interlibrary-loan'")
will come up as a suggestion, so I think the odds of it reoccurring are
relatively small.

In order for me to create a synonym, I'd have to recreate the tag, which
seems a little silly at this point. :)

If it does come up again, we'll revisit setting up a synonym.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: I wasn't aware the system deleted unused tags; thanks.

