---
title: "Should [private-collection] be made a synonym of [home-libraries|home-library]? (Or vice-versa or . . . ?)"
layout: default
---
Should [private-collection] be made a synonym of [home-libraries|home-library]? (Or vice-versa or . . . ?)
=====================
Currently, the
[private-collection](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/private-collection "show questions tagged 'private-collection'")
tag has exactly 1 usage, in the meaning of "home library," and is on the
only question currently tagged
[home-libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/home-libraries "show questions tagged 'home-libraries'").
At the moment, these are clearly intended to mean the same thing, and
both are in usage, so one or the other is a candidate for being made
into a synonym. The "-libraries" option would match other items in a
standard taxonomy of library types that we're essentially implementing
here, but
[private-collection](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/private-collection "show questions tagged 'private-collection'")
might be slightly less ambiguous.

M. Alan Thomas II

<ul class="tags"><li class="tag">discussion</li><li class="tag">tags</li><li class="tag">tag-synonyms</li></ul>

### Comments ###


Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
The slight ambiguity of
[home-libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/home-libraries "show questions tagged 'home-libraries'")—private
collections in the home vs. "your local (i.e., home) library"—can be
easily overcome both by reference to the growing taxonomy
(public-libraries, school-libraries, &c.) and more importantly by
reference to the tag wiki (which I'm working on).

For this reason, and for those given in the questionelf, I think that
[private-collection](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/private-collection "show questions tagged 'private-collection'")
should be synonym'd to
[home-libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/home-libraries "show questions tagged 'home-libraries'").

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: No-one else seems to be using "private collection" and we don't have a
quorum of up-votes as far as I'm concerned, so I'm checking this off as
the correct answer and just deleting the private-collection tag. This
proposal can be revisited if the problem reoccurs.

Answer by Joe Atzberger
----------------
Perhaps only because I deal in antique data now, I think that "private
collection" is a very different thing than *any* kind of library,
including home library. However, this usage would be rather rare here.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Well, yes, I realize that there's a potential different meaning, but I
don't think it's what people would usually think of in this community.
If it becomes necessary, we can always reverse the process. :)

