---
title : Can list-answerable questions (e.g., reader's advisory) be constructive?
---
Can list-answerable questions (e.g., reader's advisory) be constructive?
=====================
Here's my example:

> Can you name a book that portrays step-families in a positive light
> rather than the typical "wicked stepmother" and/or "abusive
> stepfather" tropes?

During the Definition phase for this proposal, this was the \#3 question
with 22 votes. (\#2 had one more vote; \#1 was only two ahead of that.)

Yes, it's slightly subjective and might need re-wording. Ignoring that
for a moment, I feel like we have a lot of questions like that around
here. I've certainly asked some, although I push concrete, at least
semi-objective points to be addressed in the answers so that there's
some way of judging them as "good" and "correct." In this case, the
standard would be whether each book addresses the point in question in
the manner indicated.

So, is this on-topic and constructive or not? I'll post two arguments
below.

M. Alan Thomas II

### Comments ###
* Robert Cartaino: For future reference, users want to be heard in their own words, not
polled. When you are controlling \*all\* sides of the conversation, you
are not likely to get the clear, unambiguous results you seek:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Polling\_is\_not\_a\_substitute\_for\_discussion
* M. Alan Thomas II: I could see arguments for both sides and didn't want to produce a
question that had answers that just said "Yes, for the reasons stated
above" or "No, for the reasons stated above." I deliberately opened one
and now both of my answers to community wiki so they would belong to the
community and could be edited, not controlled by me. I have seen other
questions where people have noted that there are a limited number of
possible results and it would be easier if there were just community
wiki answers for each result that could be voted on. If I'd wanted
control, I'd have accepted my own answer.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I have edited the question title to reflect the nature of the discussion
here. (Some list-answerable questions are clearly bad, some might be
good, there's a lot of debate over the example specifically.)


Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
Not all list-answerable questions are good, but not all of them are bad,
either. See the list of what might allow for a good such question at
[Good Subjective, Bad
Subjective](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2010/09/good-subjective-bad-subjective/)
and the list of what might make for a bad such question at [Real
Questions Have
Answers](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/real-questions-have-answers/).

The above example asks a question of the professional community that is
best answered by the professional community and that can produce a
useful answer list for future reference. (Community wiki might be
helpful here; there's a reason it automatically triggers on any question
with 30 answers.) It was also overwhelmingly accepted as appropriate
during the Definition phase of the proposal.

In this case, reader's advisory is a professional skill with
acknowledged experts and a core library function that frequently
requires conferring with other experts, whether directly (as when asking
the question) or indirectly (by consultation of expert answers in the
future). Furthermore, unlike general reference questions (where the
answer is simply sourced from existing references), there may be
questions for which there are no existing published answers and an
answer needs to be sourced from the expert community.

This type of question may, but will not necessarily, produce bad
answers. Experts trained in the relevant area—here, reader's
advisory—are capable of producing good, santive, real answers to such
questions. Poor answers may need prodding in the comments, incorporation
into better answers, or flags for moderator attention, but questions
like those referred to above should only be closed *a posteriori*, not
*a priori*, **given that the examples refer to questions requiring
expert knowledge and/or objective points that need to be addressed by
the answers, creating a reasonable possibility of producing a useful,
long-term reference**.

### Comments ###
* Melissa: I agree -- it may not be a "one-answer" question, but if it's worded
well it wouldn't be a discussion question.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Community wiki'd because I'm incorporating points from the comments at
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/77, some of which are not
mine.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
No, it's technically not about libraries (although it's very much a
library question), the answer will necessarily be non-complete, and,
being a list, there will in some sense not be a single answer.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Community wiki'd because I favor the other answer and my bias is
probably showing in this one.

Answer by Robert Cartaino
----------------
No, this type of question is not appropriate at all.

This is an expert-to-expert forum — librarians and library professionals
— and not for end users. It's an academic and "science of..." site not
targeted at those who *use* libraries.

But **in case I misunderstood** the purpose of your "example," let me
answer on another level —

These "big list" questions aren't really a good fit for this type of
Q&A. Inevitably, all semblance of "expertise" get thrown away as it
becomes difficult to begrudge any of the participants their one-line
answers because the question itself is so ridiculously open-ended that
any answer is just as "right" as any other.

You should only **ask practical, answerable questions based on actual
problems that you face.** That's a pretty big ask — We specifically
forgo these types of "generalized populous questions" because chatty,
open-ended questions diminish the usefulness of this site. It's a tough
sell, but it's that practical, low-noise approach to Q&A that drives
***experts*** to these sites.

Don't throw that away so early in your development.

> **Closed as "not constructive"**\
>  This question is not a good fit to our Q&A format. We expect answers
> to generally involve facts, references, or specific expertise; this
> question will likely solicit opinion, debate, arguments, polling, or
> extended discussion.

Literature SE became a book-recommendation engine and is now among the
[**sites that are no longer with
us.**](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2012/04/when-a-site-grows-quiet/)

Yes, these questions may receive a lot of answers and become part of
voting engine… but the relative popularity of these "poll" questions is
a **fallacy.** It doesn't drive quality. What you are teaching your
users is "Why should I ask hard, intriguing questions when the *"What's
your favorite book?"* -mongers get all the 'reputation'?" Don't do it.

[**Real Questions Have
Answers**](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/01/real-questions-have-answers/)

### Comments ###
* KatieR: I was wondering what happened to Literature SE!
* M. Alan Thomas II: I think that your belief in the inevitability of things going badly does
not fully reflect the reality that some such questions, carefully
handled, can be "good subjective."
* M. Alan Thomas II: More to the point, the example is \*\*NOT\*\* a "What's your favorite
book?" question. Indeed, I would make a distinction between "book
recommendation" and "reader's advisory"; the former is random and/or
personal, but the latter can and does produce expert reference relied on
heavily by other experts in the field. I suspect that you have mistaken
an expert reference question for idle chatter due to being an outsider
and not encountering the subject in a professional context before. These
\*are\* "practical, answerable questions based on actual problems" and
they \*do\* require "experts."
* KatieR: I'm with @Robert Cartaino here. The question posed about "readers
advisory" is not appropriate here because this site is for
\*librarians\* to ask questions about topics regarding the profession
rather than questions that \*library uses\* would ask (ie: readers
advisory). There are other, more appropriate, places (listservs) that
librarians can get readers advisory help on.
* Robert Cartaino: @M.AlanThomasII "Reader's advisories" do not speak to the target
audience of this site so should be off topic. On the broader issue of
"big lists," certainly there are exceptional examples of questions we
tend to avoid. But users will fail to see the distinction and see any
example as an invitation to ask their own. Whatever questions you ask
now will set the tone and topic for your site for a long time to come,
so pick the type of questions you ask now carefully because many-a-site
has spent endless hours trying to get rid of recommendation questions,
big lists, and "itentify this..." posts.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Regardless of whether or not a patron might find these answers useful,
librarians use them and have to consult with each other about them. I
work with a nationally-recognized expert and author on reader's advisory
(RA), and she will pass an RA question to me if she thinks I can answer
it better than her; we have experts, and even then the experts have to
consult each other. This is standard professional reference for
librarians working a public desk. Professional librarians are, I
believe, part of our target audience. If you don't understand our
profession, that's not Libraries.SE's problem.
* KatieR: No matter, readers advisory doesn't have a clear answer and so should be
off topic.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Look, I understand your point about not wanting to inspire bad apples.
But telling me what expert resources I need to do my job and who I ask
for them, when you're in a completely different profession and I have a
professional degree and a career in this profession, is not going to
make me happy. If this site is for professionals, please treat us like
professionals, not like a bunch of high school kids trying to decide
their future careers as creative writers and game designers.
* M. Alan Thomas II: N.B.: This includes not putting our technical terms in scare quotes like
they're just technobabble we invented to make people think we're doing
something special. It's a real thing; please don't mock it.
* KatieR: Asking what resources you use to conduct readers advisory is completely
different from asking a specific readers advisory question. I also have
a masters in library science & work in the field.
* Ashley Nunn: @M.AlanThomasII List questions asking for specific types of books don't
make sense here, where there is the idea that eventually there will be
the ability to accept one concise, authoritative answer - how would you
do that on that sort of question, where each answer is of equal
validity? There is no way to stop the flood of these questions once they
start, either (ask Gaming.SE about the Identify this Game questions, for
example) so saying "we will just be picky about them" doesn't really
work so well.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Well, the community appears to disagree with me (or with what they think
I'm saying, whichever), and this isn't going to go anywhere more
productive in any case. Accepting this answer and moving on.

