---
title : Who are we directing the site towards?
---
Who are we directing the site towards?
=====================
Are the users of this site involved in the information industry, or will
we be answering questions from those interested in organising their own
collections but don't neccessarily know about library tools,
terminology, etc?

Currently I think we have people from both aspects; which will affect
what tags are used. E.g. Professional development or Staff development
might be used to differentiate from Training (for those who aren't in
the Lib/Info Sci industry), or we could just use Training to encompass
everyone.

Deborah Mould

### Comments ###
* Andy Jackson: This issue is closely related to deciding which questions are on-topic.
As [information
science](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/13/is-information-science-as-a-domain-ontopic),
[archives](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/14/are-questions-about-archives-on-topic-and-should-they-be-solicited-somehow)
(and perhaps even [digital
preservation](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/50/where-is-the-line-between-the-digital-preservation-and-libraries-stack-exchange))
are considered on-topic, we can't expect the audience to be librarians.
* KatieR: @Andy, maybe not librarians but definitely professionals in the field.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Was the FAQ updated every time we changed the title of this proposal?
Because it doesn't read to me like it kept up.
* M. Alan Thomas II: There is a question on development/training tags here:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/q/86/345 Questions on home
libraries are here:
http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/home-libraries


Answer by KatieR
----------------
The FAQ says that this site is for "librarians and library
professionsals". I think we should discourage people from asking about
organizing their own collections. Additionally, I think we should
discourage people who aren't library professionsals and don't know basic
library terminology. It will just bring down the quality of the site and
bore the experts/professionsals.

I say this with evey fiber of my public librarianship screaming at me
that it's not right to work to make it accessible to all. But I don't
want to spend hours explaining every tiny detail (down to what call
numbers are) of librarianship that people pick up from either education
or working in a library. I appreciate their interest in the field but
would say do some googling or volunteering first and then come back with
some thoughtful questions.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: That this should be an expert community, I'll agree with you. I'm not
sure how old the FAQ is; we did most of our definition refining in the
title of the proposal, and the FAQ's been bothering me for a while now.
* Deborah Mould: Yes @Katie R, I don't think we should be spending time as a 'ready
reference' alternative, but when you spend your profession work life
trying to make things more accessible to everyone, I was feeling guilty
about wanting this to be a professional forum.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
This site is aimed at an *expert community*. Those experts may or may
not have degrees—my coworker who has published a best-selling ALA
publication and is invited to give talks on it is nevertheless not a
librarian because she doesn't have an MLIS—and they may be degreed
professionals in other fields who answer questions where our interests
overlap. (For example, a First Amendment lawyer who provides
expert-level legal information on censorship questions.)

As for which community that im\>—i.e., what's on-topic—we have agreed
that it is the "Libraries and Information Science" community. We
deliberately changed it from library science to libraries because we
wanted to expand beyond the science of it to all exerts in any aspect of
libraries. We likewise rejected the idea of restricting it to merely
library management. More importantly to me, we acknowledged that the
information science community vastly overlaps with the library science
community to the point at which it was best to include ton our proposal,
so information scientists who are *not* librarians and are *not* asking
"library questions" are also welcome.

This is not a site for non-experts asking for explanations of basic
concepts. However, this is a site for subject-matter experts who are not
experts at teaching or explaining things asking other subject-matter
experts how to teach or explain their subject of mutual interest. If a
non-expert gets here from Google and finds the answer useful, that's
nice, but they don't have to be involved in either asking or attempting
to answer any such question. We shouldn't be deliberately obfuscating
our questions or answers or, even worse, not asking the questions we
need answered just to prevent outsiders from reading them.

By the same token, this is not a site for explaining to people who just
bought their first book how to put it on a shelf. On the other hand, I
personally know people with home libraries—frequently professional
libraries—with thousands of items andurprisingly high circulation rate.
At some point the line between those people and people running a small
public library has gotten blurred in certain respects, which is why
you'll find questions tagged both [home-libraries] and
[small-libraries]. We shouldn't be answering "newbie" questions, as
stated above, but the fact that they're working with a non-public,
non-school, non-college, non-university, non-corporate, non-subscription
library does not mean that they aren't working with a library at all and
can't have expert questions . . . especially when they're librarians who
happen to have a massive personal library.

### Comments ###

Answer by sysadmin1138
----------------
Speaking as a moderator and user of another StackExchange site focused
on *professionals*, I can say that directing a site towards those
professionals can work and work well. Public forums on professional
topics tend to get drowned in interested amateurs, which means that such
forums end up with big walls around them or outright hostile cultures.
Building a culture of accessibility to professionals and keeping the
signal to noise ratio within acceptable limits goes a very long way
towards the creation of a thriving community.

ServerFault has drawn a very clear line in the FAQ and elsewhere that
*in the home* is explicitly off topic with rare exceptions. Such a
policy would also work here, I believe.

As a caveat to that, we've had several users with rather complex home
installations (a lot of sysadmins have home labs more complex than some
small office networks) ask very intelligent questions and it was only
late into the process that it was revealed that this was a home lab not
a workplace thing. It all depends on how the questions are asked, and
whether or not they pass the smell test of expert/professional.

It does take vigilance though. A willingness to close/hammer questions
that clearly don't fit the scope of the site (something sysadmins have,
er, no problem with) needs to be developed as well.

### Comments ###
* Deborah Mould: Thanks @sysadmin, good to remember that other sites have this problem
too.
* M. Alan Thomas II: I think that the qualification is the expertise of the questioner and
the necessity of the involvement of other experts in the answer. That
would, of necessity, eliminate many "home library" questions. However, I
suspect that librarians are more likely to have professional-grade home
installations within our topic area than sysadmins.
* sysadmin1138: @M.AlanThomasII The "In the home" thing works very well for us, as it's
a concrete thing we can point to in the FAQ to discourage highly
interested amateurs. If LIS does want to focus on experts/professionals,
finding something to put in the \*NOT about\* section is something I
strongly encourage.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Agreed. I'm not sure that's the item we want as our "Keep Out" sign,
though; we've got a very different amateur public to fend off. Should we
push this train of thought to a new question?
* sysadmin1138: @M.AlanThomasII Yes, I think it's time for just that. I'll get one
posted.
* M. Alan Thomas II: Pointer to sysadmin1138's question:
http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/q/97/345

