---
title : Setting the scope for the site: Professional/Expert
---
Setting the scope for the site: Professional/Expert
=====================
It has been asked about [Who are we directing the site
towards?](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/87/who-are-we-directing-the-site-towards/90)

In that discussion came the topic of ways to set the scope in the FAQ to
discourage the interested amateurs we're (potentially) not interested in
serving.

But first, some background. I'm a moderator and high rep user of
ServerFault, one of StackExchange's other for-professional sites. We
have quite a bit of experience in building a community for
people-who-get-paid-for-this. We have learned that one of the better
ways to handle this is to have a well-phrased 'NOT about' section in the
[FAQ](http://serverfault.com/faq).

If LIS wants to be a site aimed at professionals or subject-matter
experts, I believe we should find some language to go into the FAQ.

* * * * *

The ServerFault NOT About section reads:

> and it is *not* about…
>
> -   **Anything in a homeetting**
> -   Product, service, or learning material recommendations
> -   Career, salary, personnel, employment, or formal education
> -   Licensing, legal advice, and circumvention of security or policy
> -   Unauthorized hacking, password cracking, or system misuse

The first bullet-point is the work-horse. We've found that by scoping
ServerFault as *in the workplace* we effectively exclude a lot of the
interested amateurs. This is why it is bolded and the first point.

The second bullet-point is intended to do two things. First, discourage
a certain kind of subjective question that can't be answered, and
Second, discourage a type of question that attracts a lot of spam.

The third bullet-point is there because there is very little formalized
education in the Systems Administration space, and what there is tends
to be offered by vendors and is highly domain-specific. Indeed, it is
*Too Localized*. I don't expect this to be a problem for LIS, as there
are degree programs for it. However, career advice may still be
too-subjective.

The other two points are specific to our subject matter and are the kind
of too-localized or outright dangerous question we want to discourage.

* * * * *

What kind of verbiage could we put into the LIS FAQ to discourage
interested amateurs? [From the discussion we
had](http://meta.libraries.stackexchange.com/a/90/462), it sounds like
*in the home* is not a viable limiter for LIS, so we need to come up
with something.

We also need to figure out what, if anything, we plan on doing with
career-advice type questions. These typically come from people just
breaking into the field, and people looking to change career *paths*. Of
the two, the former are far more common and in ServerFault's case is
predominantly students fresh out of college looking for the *best* path
to take to the career of their dreams; the rest are usually entry-level
positions looking to advance.

sysadmin1138

### Comments ###
* Jakob: The actual FAQ is at http://libraries.stackexchange.com/faq by the way.
* MDMarra: Everyone listen to this man. He is wise.


Answer by KatieR
----------------
Discussing education in the LIS world is a hot button topic. I think it
would be better off not discussed on this site. The reason I say this is
because anytime someone says "You NEED an MLIS to work in the field",
five more people come back saying either 1. "I don't have one and I am
the director/head librarian/whatever" or 2. "I work for people who don't
have their degree." (The second being my situation.) In many cases,
experience is valued just as equally as education.

Choosing to get your MLIS should be a personal decision because it is
possible to move up in the library world without one -- maybe a little
bit harder and a little longer road -- but there are tons of examples
out there of successful professionals without their MLIS. It is a lot of
debt and there aren't a ton of full-time, professional level job
prospects out there. This is especially true of those who are switching
careers and don't have the freedom to move to where there are jobs. The
ALA has been telling us for a decade now that there is a "graying of the
profession" and a "mass retirement" is just on the horizon but this is
simply not happening due to the way the economy is these days.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Sounds like \*you've\* definitely got a rant in you on the subject,
anyway. I'm not sure I agree with you, but that in itself may be
indicative that you're right about the contentiousness of the subject.
Always a little tricky, that sort of thing. :\\
* sysadmin1138: The topic of education questions got rather hot in meta.serverfault as
well. There are a lot of strongly held opinions on it, which just proves
that such questions can't generate commonly accepted objective answers;
these are the questions that vote-wars are made of.
* Deborah Mould: Asking advice about education is best left to the professional
organisations like ALIA, ALA, LIANZA, etc. and by looking at the job
adverts. BTW, masters qualifications don't have the same importance here
as in the US, which also might be a reason to keep this topic of a
general forum.

Answer by M. Alan Thomas II
----------------
Okay, I tried typing this part once, stopped partway through, and came
to a realization:

> **Advice is not an answer.** That is, it's unlikely to be a *concrete,
> factual* answer that is *identifiably correct*, and anything that you
> think of as "advice" is probably directed at an individual's problem
> rather than a generalized problem and the question is therefore *too
> local* to boot. If experts ask questions about such problems in
> general and answer those questions with factual information, that's
> okay, but this must be distinguished from non-experts begging for
> personal advice.

I feel like there should be a "Thin Ice" or "Danger Zone" or
"Caution/Warning Area" or something that notes that

> While all questions should be asked by experts and express
> generalizable, expert concerns, the following topics are less
> inherently expert concerns, are less likely to have a single
> identifiably-correct answer, and will therefore receive heightened
> scrutiny:
>
> -   [home-libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/home-libraries "show questions tagged 'home-libraries'"):
>     Optimally, these are questions also generalizable to other
>     [small-libraries](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/small-libraries "show questions tagged 'small-libraries'"),
>     whether public or private. Questions that are non-expert or too
>     idiosyncratic will be closed.
>
> -   [profession](http://libraries.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/profession "show questions tagged 'profession'"):
>     This is a site for current experts, not future experts; anyone
>     wanting advice on getting into the profession should speak to
>     their local professionals for personalized advice. (*Advice is not
>     an answer.*)
>


### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: Community wiki; feel free to add further tags or debate them in the
comments. Any tag requiring extended discussion should be split to its
own question, but don't forget to leave a link in the comments!

Answer by Jakob
----------------
Sure there is no strict line, but discouraging questions about home
libraries looks like a good policy. If you manage a collection of
documents for your own use, the result may also be a library, but the
practice is not providing library services but **personal knowledge
management**. Note that some libraries provide courses in personal
knowledge management for their patrons, questions about this services
may be on-topic. But if there are no **patrons** involved, a question is
surely off-topic.

### Comments ###
* M. Alan Thomas II: And Personal Knowledge Management falls outside the scope of Information
Science as well? I'd prefer a statement indicating that the questions
should be generalizable (as, indeed, all questions should) but
preferably to small libraries, information science topics, or
what-have-you.

